Admission Date:  2006-10-29 00:00:00       Discharge Date:  2006-10-29 00:00:00

Date of Birth:   04/[**Numeric Identifier 5516**]       Sex:  F

Service:  UPMCE MEDICAL INTENSIVE CARE UNIT
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 79-year-old
female with multiple medical problems and a prolonged recent
Intensive Care Unit stay.  She was readmitted with prepped
and draped.  In 2006-10-29 00:00:00 of this year, she had gallstone
pancreatitis requiring open cholecystectomy, and her course
congestive heart failure, atrial fibrillation, C-diff,
respiratory failure followed by failure to wean, and because
of this, she had a tracheostomy, the placement of which was
complicated by tracheal tear requiring placement of a
specialized trachea and urgent repair.  Additionally, she has
an unclear myopathic, neuropathic process resulting in
generalized total body weakness.  She was sent to 123 Any St.
admission after respiratory distress and reported granulation
tissue in her tracheal site.  Plans were made for a
bronchoscopy in the morning.  She denied shortness of breath,
chest pain, or cough.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Hypertension.  2.  Atrial
fibrillation.  3.  Vent dependent believed to be secondary to
myopathy neuropathy.  4.  Recent C-diff.  5.  Volume
overload.  6.  Malnutrition.  7.  Status post tracheal
perforation.  8.  Goiter hypothyroid.  9.  Right IJ clot.
10.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.  11.  Status post
cholecystectomy.  12.  Status post intra-abdominal abscess.

ALLERGIES:  ASPIRIN, LEVOFLOXACIN, VANCOMYCIN, GENTAMICIN.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Synthroid 75 q.d., Metoprolol 25
b.i.d., Prilosec 40 q.d., Flagyl 500 t.i.d., Paxil 20 q.d.,
Vitamin C 500 b.i.d., Zinc 220 q.d., Trazodone 25 q.h.s.,
Zofran p.r.n., Coumadin, Lasix 20 q.d., Promote tube feeds 65
cc/hr.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Pulse 100, blood
pressure 109/65, oxygen saturation 99% on room air.  General:
She was an elderly white female in no acute distress.  HEENT:
Unremarkable.  Lungs:  Coarse breath sounds throughout.
Cardiovascular:  Irregularly, irregular with normal S1 and
S2.  Abdomen:  Benign.  Extremities:  There was 3+ diffuse
pitting edema.  Neurological:  She was alert and oriented
with intact motor exam but generalized weakness.

LABORATORY DATA:  Chest x-ray pending.  Electrocardiogram
revealed atrial fibrillation at 125.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This was a 79-year-old female with multiple
medical problems, with prolonged Intensive Care Unit stay,
admitted with respiratory distress to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit.

1.  Pulmonary:  The patient was admitted with worsening
respiratory status, breathing through a tracheostomy
ventilator dependence believed to be secondary to
myopathic process.  On hospital day #2, bronchoscopy was
performed which was negative for obstruction or vocal cord
dysfunction.  She was noticed to have a redundant trachea,
and her episode of shortness of breath at the skilled nursing
facility was likely secondary to her trach hitting the back
of her trachea.  Interventional Pulmonary and Thoracic
Surgery evaluated her airway, and they recommended not
changing her trach at this time.  They felt that the current
trach was appropriate and more likely to obstruct than any
other.

On hospital day #3, Neurology was consulted to evaluate her
neuropathic process.  The result of this will be dictated
subsequently.

The patient was rested on AC mode with plans to start her on
pressure support trials on hospital day #4.  By her fifth
hospital day, the patient was tolerating pressure support
mode well.  At this point, the consensus thinking was that
all of her respiratory failure was due to her muscular
weakness.  Pressure support was weaned as tolerated.

On 2006-10-29 00:00:00, after consultation with the Interventional
Pulmonology Service, it was deemed that the patient was a
candidate for change to a new trach which would allow her to
speak from time to time.  This was successfully performed
without incident on 2006-10-29 00:00:00.  The patient tolerated the
procedure well.  Following this through the remainder of her
hospital stay, the patient was kept in pressure support mode
with periodic T-piece trials.  On the day prior to
discharge, she was able to tolerate a trache mask
trial for approximately three hours.

We will discharge her to UPMCE where she
can be continued on pressure support mode with
 trache mask trials as tolerated.  Of note at the time
of discharge, she had not required AC ventilation mode for
greater than two weeks.  At the time of discharge when on the
ventilator, the patient was in IMV mode with pressure support
with an FIO2 of 40%, a set tidal volume of 500, a set rate of
5.  She was overbreathing at a rate of 17 total.  Her PEEP
was set at 5.0, and her pressure support was set at 5.0 as
well.

2.  Cardiovascular:  The patient came in with chronic atrial
fibrillation, therapeutic on Coumadin.  Her anticoagulation
was stopped.  In order for her to have her bronchoscopy, she
was subsequently put on Heparin and reloaded with Coumadin.
At the time of discharge, her INR was 2.5 on a dose of 3 mg a
day, and this will need to be adjusted at the outside
hospital at an appropriate stable dose.  Additionally she was
maintained on her Digoxin.  Multiple Digoxin levels were
checked and were all 1.0 which was deemed acceptable.

3.  GI:  The patient was on tube feeds.  At the time of
discharge she was tolerating tube feeds at a rate of 40
cc/hr.  Of note, on two separated occasions approximately one
week before discharge, the patient had complaints of nausea
and vomiting for which her tube feeds had to be stopped.  CT
scan was performed on the day prior to discharge which
revealed no intra-abdominal abscesses or evidence of bowel
obstruction; however, the patient did appeared to have a mild
ileus, the exact etiology of which is unclear at this time,
although we speculated it may be related to her neuromuscular
process.  She was tolerating tube feeds and able to move her
bowels with laxatives.  We recommend continuing this at this
time.  At the rehabilitation facility, low-dose Erythromycin
can be considered as a GI motility Dahliah Fleskes if she continues to
have problems tolerating tube feeds and with nausea and
vomiting.

4.  Neurology:  The patient was seen by the Neuromuscular
Team who recommended muscle biopsy which was subsequently
performed, the results of which are still pending at the time
of this dictation and her discharge.  She has a follow-up
appointment with the Neurology Service on Monday, 2006-10-29 00:00:00,
at 4 p.m. on the 123 Any St. of the UPMCE Building, test@mail.com.
At that time, results of the biopsy should be back.  In the
meantime, they recommended a four-week trial of Prednisone 60
mg a day, of which she is currently on.  She will continue
this until the end of the four weeks in late 2006-10-29 00:00:00, or
until she is directed to stop from the Neurology Service.

5.  Infectious disease:  The patient had a urine culture come
back positive for pseudomonas sensitive to Bactrim.  At the
time of dictation, she is on her fifth day of Bactrim.  She
will need to complete a 14-day course.  She should also have
her urine tested for clearing of the bacteria at the outside
facility.

6.  Endocrine:  The patient was placed on a regular Insulin
sliding scale for control of her blood sugars while on
Prednisone.

7.  Psychiatric:  In order to help with sleeping, the patient
was given 40 mg Paxil q.h.s. which seemed to work well.

8.  Prophylaxis:  For prophylaxis, the patient was placed on
Prevacid q.d.

9.  Fluids:  The patient was very edematous at the
time of her admission.  She was started on Captopril which
was titrated up to 37.5 t.i.d.  This seemed to greatly
improve her urine output.  Additionally she was initially
given a Lasix drip and subsequently switched over to daily
Lasix dose.  Her current dose is 60 mg IV t.i.d.  With this,
she has been diuresing approximately 500 cc to 1 L per day.
We recommend continuing to do this until she clinically shows
no evidence of fluid overload.  On exam at the time of
discharge, she has approximately 1+ pitting edema in her
lower extremities.

10.  Communication:  Dr. Dahliah Fleskes, the patient's primary care
physician, Jerelly Dimmer Jerelly Dimmer routinely throughout the course of
her care.  There are plans to have follow-up discussions with
the family, as course evolved.  Additionally as mentioned
above, she has a follow-up appointment with the Neuromuscular
Service regarding her diffuse myopathy.







                            Dahliah Fleskes, M.D.  20007

Dictated By:Dahliah Fleskes
MEDQUIST36

D:  2006-10-29 00:00:00  10:52
T:  2006-10-29 00:00:00  11:12
JOB#:  20007
