Admission Date:  2014-11-05 00:00:00       Discharge Date: 2014-11-05 00:00:00

Date of Birth:                    Sex:  #24

Service:  #58

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 78 year old
gentleman with a history of hypertension and known five cm Type
IV
thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm.  He was being followed by Dr.
Katianna Wiggens.  He presented to UPMCE Hospital with worsening
abdominal and back pain.  Pain began about a day prior to
admission and gradually worsened.  It is not associated with
food.  No nausea, vomiting, no chest pain, shortness of
breath.  The pain was band-like around his abdomen.

At UPMCE UPMCE Hospital, the patient underwent abdominal CT
scan which did not show a ruptured aneurysm.  The patient was
transferred to UPMCE for
further management. Upon arrival, he had a tender, pulsatile
mass.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for hypertension;
Type IV thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm; gout; arthritis.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Right hip open reduction and internal
fixation and right carotid endarterectomy and colonoscopy
with polypectomy a year ago.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Atenolol, Hydrochlorothiazide, aspirin,
multi-vitamin, Verapamil, Colchicine.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient was alert and oriented
times three. Chest was clear. Abdomen was soft and there was
a tender pulsatile mass but no rebound. Rectal was normal tone
and
guaiac negative.  He has palpable dorsalis pedis and
posterior tibial artery bilaterally.  The patient underwent
another CT scan at UPMCE on
admission, which showed no rupture of the aneurysm.  All of
his laboratory values were stable.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to Medical
Intensive Care Unit.  However, given his abdominal pain, it
was deemed that the patient had a symptomatic aneurysm and
the patient fell into a group of increased risk of rupturing,
inspite of CT demonstrating no rupture and the aneurysm size
was 5.6 cms.  The patient was taken emergently to the
operating room. He underwent repair of the thoracoabdominal
aortic
aneurysm with a supraceliac crossclamp by Dr. Paslay on 2014-11-05 00:00:00.
Intraoperatively, the patient had gotten 17 liters of fluid
and four units of FFP and five units of packed red blood
cells and six packs of platelets and some cryo.  In order to
cross the aorta, unfortunately we had to cross the aorta
above the celiac artery.  Postoperatively, the patient was
transferred to the trauma Intensive Care Unit, intubated.

The patient underwent a long hospital course. On
postoperative day number one, the patient had low to no
urinary output.  CVH was considered.  Renal consult was
obtained.  On postoperative day number one, the patient's
creatinine was elevated from 1.4 from baseline of 1.0.  The
patient remained intubated.  Cardiology was consulted for
perioperative management of this patient.  Renal recommended
200 mg of intravenous Lasix to see if the patient had any
response to that.  However, there was no response to the
Lasix treatment.

Throughout the day, patient continued requiring intravenous
fluids and urinary output continued to be an issue.  On
2014-11-05 00:00:00, a renal ultrasound was performed and a cardiac
echo was done.  The ultrasound showed that there was no
obstruction of the renal artery flow.  On 2014-11-05 00:00:00, the
patient was started on TPN.  From this point on, it was
somewhat apparent that the patient was going to have a long
and tortuous hospital course.

Over the next few days, the patient's creatinine continued to
elevate.  On 2014-11-05 00:00:00, the patient's creatinine was 2.8.
Renal ultrasound showed excellent perfusion to both kidneys
and there was no hydronephrosis.  Also, the patient had a
four compartment fasciotomy on the left lower extremity,
performed on the same day of surgery and the patient had
creation of a left to right femoral-femoral bypass on 2014-11-05 00:00:00, the same day of surgery.  The patient was put on Lasix
and Dopamine drip on 2014-11-05 00:00:00 for renal recommendations,
for an attempt to removal of fluids prior to the onset of
CVH.  Throughout the postoperative days, progress has been
made in terms of ventilatory management. The settings have
been gradually decreased, however, the patient was never
deemed ready for extubation, due to his excessive fluid over
load and his acute renal failure.

Nutritionally, the patient was doing well on TPN.  The
patient was started on tube feeds after he showed some bowel
function.  The patient tolerated the tube feeds well the
pyloric feeding tube was then placed via interventional
radiology. The patient was placed on C-pap; however, the
patient was still in acute renal failure.  Creatinine reached
a peak of 5.1.  On 2014-11-05 00:00:00, under renal's
recommendations, hemodialysis and CVH became apparent.  At
the same time, the patient was on a Dopamine drip at 2.5 and
Lasix drip of 10, in order to help him make urine.

On 2014-11-05 00:00:00, the patient began to spike a fever.  At that
point, we put the patient on broad spectrum antibiotics,
including Vancomycin, Levofloxacin and Flagyl.  Infectious
disease was consulted.  Blood culture was sent off.  The
patient began to have some purulent drainage coming out of
her right groin.  At the same time, the patient was placed on
broad spectrum antibiotics.  The patient was septic
appearing.

On 2014-11-05 00:00:00, a small, two cm incision was made over the
mid abdomen, at a site of the graft tunnel.  Some local
anesthetic Katianna Wiggens was then given and the local incision and
drainage was then carried out through a right groin access.
The patient's antibiotics were then switched to Vancomycin,
Zosyn and Ciprofloxacin per infectious disease
recommendations.  The patient continued to be intubated,
although hemodynamically, he appeared to be somewhat stable
except that the groin graft appeared to be infected. The
patient was continued on the CVH hemodialysis.

Over the next few days, the patient's creatinine had dropped
down somewhat, to about 3.0 or 3.3, but still the patient was
in acute renal failure.  CVH was continued and antibiotics
were continued.  The patient was pan cultured.  The right
groin wound was growing out gram negative rods, probably
enterococcus and pseudomonas, E. coli and Morganella from the
right groin wound. Blood culture was growing out Enterococcus
at the same time, despite the broad spectrum antibiotic
coverage.  On postoperative day number 21 or 2014-11-05 00:00:00,
the patient was taken back to the operating room.  The
patient underwent a left axillofemoral bypass graft and
ligation of the right to left femoral-femoral bypass.
Postoperatively, the patient was ruled out for myocardial
infarction and the patient appeared to be doing well. The
patient had Dopplerable dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial
pulses bilaterally.  The patient was continued on CVH in an
attempt to remove additional fluids.

Intraoperatively, the patient was given argatroban
given the fact that he was HIT positive.  Intraoperatively,
the patient required five liters of fluids and 12 units of
FFP and 12 units of packed red blood cells and five bags of
platelets.  Estimated blood loss was four liters.  The
patient was continued on the CVVH dialysis.

At the same time, gastrointestinal wise, the patient was
tolerating tube feeds. Tube feeds were initiated on
postoperative day number one from the left axillofemoral
bypass.  Over the next few days, the patient was continued on
antibiotics per infectious disease recommendations.
Vancomycin, Zosyn and Ciprofloxacin were continued.  The
patient's laboratory values showed an elevation of total
bilirubin of 9.1.  There was a question of DIC and hematology
consult was then obtained.

The hematology team apparently felt that it was a combination
of bacteremia, sepsis and renal failure that led to the
elevated total bilirubin and hemolysis. They felt that using
products to support him was adequate for current management.

On 2014-11-05 00:00:00, the patient spiked a low grade temperature to
101 and his white count elevated to 16.  The patient's
dialysis catheter was then changed over a wire.  His left
central line was also changed. The patient was again pan
cultured.

On 2014-11-05 00:00:00, the patient was taken back to the
operating room for removal of the infected femoral-femoral
bypass graft.  After excising the graft, a right femoral
artery vein patch angioplasty was also performed.  The
procedure went well and the patient was returned to the
trauma Intensive Care Unit with palpable pulses. At the same
time, the patient was continued on the CVH dialysis for fluid
over load.  On 2014-11-05 00:00:00, the patient underwent an open
tracheostomy by the thoracic team due to his extended failure
to wean off ventilation. The patient did well on a
tracheostomy.

Nutritionally, the patient has a Dopoff feeding tube and the
patient was getting Napro per nutrition recommendations at
his goal of 50 cc per hour.  On 2014-11-05 00:00:00, the patient
was fitted for a Pasmir valve while on tracheostomy. The
patient's renal function appeared to be improving and the
patient was briefly off CVH and continued on Lasix and
Dopamine drip, in order for him to make urine.  His
creatinine was then followed over the next few days; however,
the patient's creatinine continued to elevate, trending up,
and the patient had to be put back briefly on hemodialysis,
CVH.  The antibiotic regimen was continued per infectious
disease recommendations.

Meanwhile, the patient was doing well on his tracheostomy.
Rehabilitation has begun to work with the patient.
Occasionally, the patient was placed on tracheostomy mask.
The patient appeared to be doing well and gradually, his time
on the tracheostomy mask was increased.

On 2014-11-05 00:00:00, hemodialysis was held because creatinine
appeared to be stabilizing.  On 2014-11-05 00:00:00, the patient's
white count was elevated at 20,000 and the patient underwent
a left thoracentesis for his pleural effusion. The fluid was
sent for culture, which returned to be negative.  His wound
appeared to be clean, dry and intact.  His right groin was
openly packed. The rest of the incisions were all clean, dry
and intact.

His fasciotomy site appeared to be healing. The skin was skin
stapled.  The staple was then discontinued on 2014-11-05 00:00:00
and the wound was then steri-stripped.  The patient's Lasix
drip was stopped and his Dopamine drip was stopped. The
patient was still requiring intermittent dialysis for renal.
Over the next few days, until 2014-11-05 00:00:00, the patient was
doing extremely well. Respiratory wise, he was on a
tracheostomy collar during the day and SMIV at night.  The
patient was still on Vancomycin, Zosyn and Ciprofloxacin for
antibiotic coverage.  The wound looked very well and the
wound was packed with wet to dry dressing change.  The
patient was begun to be screened for tracheostomy
rehabilitation.

The plans are that we will plan to change over to a
fenestrated tracheostomy. The patient will be ready for
vented rehabilitation.  The patient was scheduled to get a
tunneled dialysis catheter for permanent dialysis. Once
completed, the patient will be ready for rehabilitation.  His
discharge medications and plans will be dictated in an
addendum to this discharge summary.




                            Katianna Wiggens, M.D.  2914

Dictated By:123 Any St.
MEDQUIST36

D:  2014-11-05 00:00:00  11:38
T:  2014-11-05 00:00:00  03:32
JOB#:  24096
