Admission Date: 2007-04-20 00:00:00        Discharge Date: 2007-04-20 00:00:00

Date of Birth: 1963-04-20 00:00:00 00:00:00        Sex:  M

Service:  MED


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Abdominal pain.

This is a 31-year-old gentleman with longstanding history of
Crohn's disease since age 12 years, status post ileo
resection and ileocolic anastomosis.  The patient was
recently admitted in 2007-04-20 00:00:00 for a Crohn's flare and has
been on the steroid taper since his discharge.  One week
prior to admission, his prednisone was decreased from 20 mg
to 10 mg, and on the day prior to admission, the patient
developed mild discomfort in his abdomen then extreme pain
with nausea and vomiting today.  The patient denied any
diarrhea or bright red blood per rectum.  His last bowel
movement was this morning.  The pain is located in the
periumbilical area radiating diffusely.  Of note, the patient
has a new rash that started in his ears as mild pruritus.  He
noted what was thought to be pimples that exposed to mild
fluid initially in his ear.  The rash has not progressed to
his neck, back, and chest.  The patient has had recent travel
to 123 Any St., but is not fully coming about the details of his
trip.

Of note, the patient was given morphine in the ED for pain
control and developed urinary retention.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Crohn's disease times 12 years.  The
patient has had immunosuppression with 6-MP and has also been
recently on the steroid taper.

Ileal resection with ileocolic anastomosis and small bowel
stricture.

Iron deficiency anemia.

Lactose intolerance.

Status post appendectomy.

Colonoscopy in 2007-04-20 00:00:00.

Prior cryptococcal infection involving spleen.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS:
1. Prednisone 10 mg q.d.
2. Protonix 40 mg q.d.
3. 6-MP 100 mg q.h.s.
4. Methenamine 250 mg four capsules q.i.d.
5. Entocort 9 mg p.o. q.d.
6. Imodium one capsule t.i.d.


SOCIAL HISTORY:  Smokes half pack per day.  He has been a
smoker since 2007-04-20 00:00:00 years.  The patient drinks one to two beers
per day.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, vital signs, temperature
97.0, heart rate 80, and blood pressure 135/75.  Generally,
the patient was uncomfortable appearing, but in no acute
distress.  HEENT:  Moist mucous membranes.  Oropharynx is
clear.  Pupils equal, round, reactive to light.  Extraocular
movements are intact.  Neck was supple without
lymphadenopathy.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate.  S1 and S2.
No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  Pulmonary:  Clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Abdomen:  Normal bowel sounds,
soft, mild pain on palpation in the periumbilical region.  No
significant distention.  No rebound or guarding.
Extremities:  No clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  Two plus
pulses bilaterally.  Neurologically:  Alert and oriented
times 3.  Skin exam shows 2-3 mm papules over neck, back, and
chest.  Mildly pruritic and nontender.

LABORATORY DATA:  Labs on admission, white blood count was
5.4 with 86 neutrophils, 11 bands, and 1 plasma cell.
Hematocrit was 40.1 and platelets are 246.  chemistry, sodium
141, potassium 4.3, chloride 105, bicarb 26, bun 8,
creatinine 0.7, and glucose 109.  ALT is 150, AST 90,
alkaline phosphatase 58, LDH 328, total bilirubin is 1.1,
lipase 20, and amylase 63.  UA was negative.  CT of the
abdomen and pelvis showed prominence of small bowel with mild
thickening and a very few short segments.  Less extensive
thickening than in 2007-04-20 00:00:00.  No evidence of obstruction.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a 31-year-old male with abdominal
pain initially thought to be a Crohn's flare.  However, over
the next 24 hours after admission, the patient developed
hypoxia and respiratory distress as well as worsening
abdominal pain.  On the following day after admission, again
clinical course was declining.  The patient was seen by the
infectious disease, GI, and hematology oncology consultants.
That night the patient did develop the transaminitis with ALT
to 674 and AST 754 with an LDH of 861, and total bilirubin
1.6, pt 13.1, PTT 29.2, and INR of 1.1.  D-dimer was found to
be greater than 10, 000.  At this time, the transaminitis in
the setting of the rash was concerning for a viral etiology.
Hep serologies were checked in addition to CMV, EBV, and an
acute HIV infection.  Other serologies, such as
toxoplasmosis, cryptococcus, VDV, and HSV were also
considered.  There is a thought that the patient's
immunocompromised status under section PN steroid use might
make him more susceptible to had seminate with zoster.  Again
that night, the patient was started on vancomycin for
possible skin infection and doxycycline for question of tick
borne diseases.  on Cipro and Flagyl for a possible Crohn's
flare, on acyclovir for possible seminated zoster, and on
amphotericin for a possible histo.  Dermatology acutely saw
the patient on the night of 2007-04-20 00:00:00, and noted a
micropapular blenching rash, which was thought to be a viral
exanthem.  TSA was performed showing evidence of varicella
zoster virus.  Of note, medical team was informed that the
patient had never had chickenpox, and this is a primary
disseminated varicella infection.  The hematology consult
obtained on the night of 2007-04-20 00:00:00, was on the setting of
thrombocytopenia, there was some concern for symptoms of
process such as a cord, splenomegaly, or destruction by an
immune mediated system such as a viral infection.  Diagnosis
such as GIC, HUS-TPP were considered.  Coagulations had
currently been stable.  A smear was reviewed and showed no
evidence of cystocytes and hypertension was elevated.  There
was again some concern for DIC and the patient's platelets,
coagulations, LDH, and fibrinogen were followed closely.
Again that night, the patient significantly decompensated and
had evidence of respiratory distress.  The patient was
transferred to MICU on the night of 2007-04-20 00:00:00.

Overnight in the MICU, the patient remained relatively
stable.  However, he again have evidence of hyper and
hypothermia.  The patient's respiratory status remained
stable.  However, the patient began to require increasing
levels of oxygen.  The patient's O2 saturation was
approximately 90 percent on a 10 liter V-stent.  In addition,
the patient was noted to be tachycardic with heart rate in
the 140s.  On 2007-04-20 00:00:00, which is hospital day 3, but MICU
day 1, the patient was noted to have significant abnormality
in his labs.  ALT increased to 35.73, AST increased 53.23,
alkaline phosphatase just 180, and total bilirubin increased
to 5.8.  There is evidence of mild renal failure.  Platelets
declined to 23, haptoglobin was less than 20, and fibrinogen
was 94.

At this point, hepatitis serologies returned negative,
cryptococcal antigen was negative, RPR was non-reactive, CMC
was negative, toxo was negative, Histoplasma capsulatum
antigen was negative, DFA for HSV was negative.  However, DFA
for VZV became positive and IgG for VZV was negative
consistent with primary varicella infection.  At this point,
the patient's antibiotics were readjusted.  The patient was
given high doses of acyclovir.  Other antibiotics were
discontinued.  In addition, secondary to respiratory
distress, the patient was intubated for worsening hypoxia.
After intubation, the patient became hypotensive and received
aggressive fluid resuscitation with 12 liters fluid,
initially normal saline, and subsequently lactate ringers.
The patient was started on Levophed for hypotension and
despite full it does not remained around 55.  The patient
subsequently became difficult to oxygenate, and ventilator
settings were adjusted to maintain pao2 in 70s to 80s.

The patient's pulmonary status on hospital day 4, the patient
was significantly difficult to oxygenate.  Paralytics were
used to help ease the work of breathing.  The patient's chest
films and pao2 to fio2 ratio were consistent with ARDS.  The
patient was proned to assist with improvements on oxygenation
and this initially helped.  However, the patient became
hypoxic again and was reproned.  Regarding the patient's
liver failure, LFTS continued to rise, chlorides continued to
rise, and renal failure worsened.  The patient did have some
evidence of DIC and was transfused cryo for fibrinogen less
than 100.  The patient was continued to be treated with
acyclovir.  However, given repeated fevers, the patient was
also started on cefepime and on vancomycin.  Regarding his
renal failure and multi123 Any St.sues, the patient's acidosis was
thought to be to secondary to shock versus tissue necrosis
versus renal failure versus electrolyte abnormalities.  The
vent was adjusted to compensate for pH.  The patient was
given large doses of bicarbonates to adjust his acidosis.
ABG at that time was 7.14, 38, and 86.

Regarding his acute renal failure, the patient's bun and
creatinine continued to rise despite fluids.  There was some
thought about initiating CVVH, and ultimately a catheter was
placed by the renal team.  On the hospital day next, the
patient was significantly hypoxic with pao2 in 37 with
increasing difficulty to oxygenate.  Prior to this time, the
patient had been ruled in an esophageal balloon study to help
determine adequate peak.  The patient secondary to ventilator
protective strategies under the Argonaut protocol,  the
patient had been receiving higher doses of PEEP to improve
oxygenation.  However, on this day the patient developed
evidence of pneumomediastinum.  The patient was proned with
slight improvements in his po2.

Other issues, the patient's acidosis continued to worsen.
His hypotension, however, improved with the patient remained
pressor dependent.  Further imaging was performed in order to
understand etiology of liver failure.  Ultrasound showed
clots in the portal vein, decreased s123 Any St. vein flow, patent
hepatic veins, and IVC.  The patient was started on low-dose
heparin.  There is some concern that there is evidence of
hypercoagulable state.  Again at this time, the patient
remains intubated on four pressors with increasing difficulty
oxygenating.  The patient's transaminases continued to rise
as well as coagulopathy worsening and renal failure
worsening.  A lactate measured on this day was 26.  Regarding
his problem, his hypoxia and respiratory failure was thought
to be due to varicella pneumonitis.  The patient is on the
ventilator with Argonaut protocol in the setting of
pneumomediastinum, and there was concern for pneumothorax.
At this point, it was thought to put him prophylactic chest
tubes in the setting of the patient was to develop a
pneumothorax.  However, the patient's clinical status
declined secondary to multisystem organ failure before this
could be initiated.

The running of hypotension and shock; this was thought to be
septic shock.  The patient is currently on three pressors,
and blood pressure was responsive to volume resuscitation as
well as bicarbonate, but there is lot significant concern for
volume overload and pulmonary edema.  Regarding the patient's
hepatic failure, hence the secondary to disseminated
varicella, again transaminases continued to rise.  The
patient has evidence of venous obstruction and was started on
anticoagulation.  Regarding his disseminated varicella, the
patient was given renal doses of acyclovir.  Other micro data
remained negative to date.  Regarding his heme issues, he is
concerned for DIC and thrombocytopenia.  The patient was
transfused cryo; some thought about starting heparin versus
Argatroban.  It was thought that with the significant liver
dysfunction, the patient may not have enough a T3 function.
However, heparin was initiated until this issue was sorted
out.  Regarding his renal issues, acidosis continued to
worsen, electrolyte abnormalities persisted despite
aggressive correction and acute renal failure worsened.
Catheter was placed with CVVH the day before, and the patient
was initiated on CVVH to assist with volume overload.

Later that afternoon, the patient became progressively
hypoxic despite aggressive efforts to improve oxygenation.
Again CVVH had been started that day to help reduce volume to
improve oxygenation status.  Approximately, 15-20 minutes
prior to the patient's death, heart rate was in the 170s naps
were in 50s and began to decrease.  The patient had
increasing evidence of ectopy.  The patient's code status had
been changed two days prior to do not resuscitate.  Again
patient's NAPS and heart rate continued to drop.  The patient
was given 1 mg of epinephrine and then atropine.  The
patient's dopamine was increased.  Volume resuscitation was
begun without improvement in heart rate or bp.  NAPS
continued to decline despite all medical efforts.  Family at
that time did not want further shocks or defibrillations and
at 6 p.m. on 2007-04-20 00:00:00, the patient expired.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Disseminated primary varicella
infection causing hepatic failure, pneumonitis, and the renal
failure.

Acute renal failure.

Hepatic failure.

Pneumonitis progressing to ARDS.

Hypoxia.

Septic shock.

Hypotension requiring multiple pressor support.

Hyperkalemia.

Hyperphosphatemia.

Hypocalcemia.

Hyperglycemia.

DIC with evidence of venous obstruction.

Thrombocytopenia.

Anemia.

Metabolic acidosis.

History of Crohn's disease.



                        Cianah Paley, 14497

Dictated By:Donte Strieff
MEDQUIST36
D:  2007-04-20 00:00:00 08:42:57
T:  2007-04-20 00:00:00 12:51:32
Job#:  14497
