Admission Date:  2010-03-01 00:00:00       Discharge Date:  2010-03-01 00:00:00

Date of Birth: 2002-05-07 00:00:00 00:00:00       Sex:  M

Service:  COLORECTAL SURGERY SERVICE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 74 year old gentleman
with a history of prostate cancer who presented in 2010-03-01 00:00:00
of last year with rectal bleeding.  Evaluation included a
colonoscopy which showed an ulcerative lesion in the rectum.
These were biopsied and showed moderately differentiated
adenocarcinoma.  The patient presents for curative resection.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Prostate cancer with radiation
implants and external beam radiation; hypercholesterolemia;
history of peptic ulcer disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No tobacco; occasional alcohol.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:
1.  Cardura 2 mg once a day.
2.  Lipitor 10 mg once a day.

INITIAL PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient was afebrile.
Vital signs, within normal limits.  Well developed male, no
apparent distress.  Chest was clear.  Heart was regular.
Abdomen, soft, nondistended, without masses.  Extremities are
warm.

PREOPERATIVE LABORATORY:  Preoperative labs were significant
for a hematocrit of 40.4.

BRIEF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was taken to the
Operating Room on 2010-03-01 00:00:00, where he underwent a
proctocolectomy with a coloanal anastomosis and a loop
ileostomy under general endotracheal anesthesia.  Estimated
blood loss was 500 cc.  The patient had a #14 French q day
catheter placed due to his history of prostate cancer and
ureteral stenosis.  He tolerated the procedure well.  There
were no intraoperative complications and he was transported
to the Recovery Room in stable condition.

Immediately postoperatively, the patient was relatively
comfortable with an epidural catheter in place for pain
control.  He remained hemodynamically stable, however, was
without flatus.  He was started on clear liquids on
postoperative day #2 as well as restarted on his whole
medications.  Of note, he began to have a large amount of
light brown loose output from his ostomy.  Due to the large
volume, he was started on intravenous fluid replacement to
prevent dehydration.  His diet was advanced to a regular diet
and his fluid re123 Any St.n was kept for the next few days.

His Foley catheter was removed on postoperative day #7,
however, he failed to void.  Urology was consulted and a 18
French Foley was placed with a PVR of 190 cc.  Towards
postoperative day #8, the patient's ostomy output decreased.
His abdomen became distended and his a123 Any St.e worsened.  He
also had an episode of emesis as well.

KUB revealed a PSBO.  A small red rubber catheter was placed
in the stoma with some relief, however, the patient remained
distended.  His partial small bowel obstruction was slow to
resolve where on postoperative day #18 he was started on
clears with continued decompression through his ostomy via
the red rubber catheter.

Postoperative day #13, the patient became hypotensive with a
severe abdominal pain in the right upper quadrant above his
ostomy.  Abdominal CT with p.o. and intravenous contrast was
done which showed dilated loops of small bowel and mild edema
proximal to the ostomy without free air or contrast
extravasation.  He was made NPO and resuscitated with
intravenous fluids, however, later that evening, his O2 sats
were noted to decrease to the 80s on room air.

Electrocardiogram was obtained which showed no change from
prior, however, in light of the patient's obstruction,
marginal urine output and pending instability, he was
transferred to the Intensive Care Unit for further
management.  There he underwent a VQ scan which was low
probability for pulmonary embolus.

On rectal examination, he was found to have an area of
anterior separation of his anastomosis and about 30 cc of
serosanguinous fluid was drained.  He was kept on broad
spectrum antibiotics and close observation.

CT scan of the abdomen was repeated which showed, again,
thickened bowel but no contrast extravasation.  Of note, as
well, the patient's white blood cell count had increased to
24, however, over the next few days, he stabilized with a
decreasing white blood cell count, pain abating and better
urine output.

During this time, while he was NPO, he was also started on
TPN for nutritional support.  Due to the patient's apparent
stability, he was started on p.o. diet again which was
advanced. He did continue over the next few days to require a
few fluid boluses due to his high ileostomy output.

He continued to make slow gains and required two additional
CT scans that showed some free fluid in the abdomen which did
not show evidence of having extravasated.  These were
percutaneously drained.  The first around the 17th and the
18th with the initial culture growing E-coli and Morganella
Morgani and subsequent cultures with no growth.  As note,
throughout his period of sepsis, several blood cultures were
drawn which have showed no growth to date.

Due to the patient's poor p.o. intake, a nasal gastric
feeding tube was placed and he was started on tube feeds
which he tolerated well.  His antibiotics were also continued
through this interval as well.

Around postoperative day #30, he was started on a regular
diet.  His tube feeds had been at goal, however, his
ileostomy output again started to increase for which he was
placed on intravenous fluid replacement.

He had a CT scan of his abdomen which did not show evidence
of a leak or any new intra-abdominal fluid collections.

He was slowly able to advance his diet.  His TPN was d/c'd
and at the time of this dictation, the patient is meeting
100% of his caloric and protein needs orally.  His tube feeds
have been decreased to 35 cc per hour to compensate for what
he himself may not take in.

His antibiotics were stopped on postoperative day #32.  He
remained afebrile, hemodynamically stable and otherwise
feeling well.

CONDITION OF DISCHARGE:  Good.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient will be discharged to a
rehabilitation facility for conditioning and regain of
strength.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Rectal cancer.
2.  Status post proctocolectomy with coloanal anastomosis and
a loop ileostomy.
3.  Partial small bowel obstruction, resolved.
4.  Postoperative leak, resolved.
5.  Hyperlipidemia.
6.  History of prostate cancer.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1.  Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q d.
2.  .................... 2 mg p.o. q hs.
3.  Heparin subcutaneous 5,000 units b.i.d.
4.  Vitamin D 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.
5.  Zinc Sulfate 220 mg p.o. q d for a total of two weeks.
6.  Protonix 40 mg p.o. q d.
7.  Lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.
8.  Calcium Carbonate 1 gram p.o. b.i.d.
9.  Imodium 4 mg p.o. b.i.d.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  This patient is to follow up with
Dr. Jarelin Flintoff Murrah at telephone # (test@mail.com in 10 to 14
days.  He is also to follow up with his Urologist, Dr
Murrah at telephone # (test@mail.com for planning of Foley
catheter removal and further care.



                            Murrah, [**First Name3 (LF) 1097**]

Dictated By:Jarelin Flintoff
MEDQUIST36

D:  2010-03-01 00:00:00  14:08
T:  2010-03-01 00:00:00  14:04
JOB#:  25780
