Admission Date:  2009-01-22 00:00:00              Discharge Date:   2009-01-22 00:00:00

Date of Birth: 1998-01-22 00:00:00 00:00:00             Sex:   M

Service: SURGERY

Allergies:
Lisinopril / Aspirin Enteric Coated

Attending:Zuriah George
Chief Complaint:
Abdominal Distention
Nausea and Vomiting

Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
2009-01-22 00:00:00:
1.  Lysis of single strand adhesion with derotation of a
    volvulus
2.  Placement of a nasogastric tube

2009-01-22 00:00:00: Second look laparotomy


History of Present Illness:
79M s/p repair of AAA 2009-01-22 00:00:00 presents with abdominal distention,
nausea and vomiting.

Past Medical History:
CAD (s/p CABG),
HTN,
^lipid,
MGUS,
DJD,
Orthostatic syncope,
L4-5 disc herniation.

Social History:
+Tobacco; +ETOH


Family History:
Noncontributory

Physical Exam:
Admission Physical Exam-  2009-01-22 00:00:00

97.5  68  162/72  18  94%

comfortable
no icterus/jaundice
neck supple
CTAB
CV regular
abdomen distended, NT, easily reducible (R)inguinal hernia
ext palpable DP (B), no edema

Pertinent Results:
CTA ABD W&W/O C & RECONS  2009-01-22 00:00:00 3:43 AM
FINDINGS: Abdomen, the evaluation of upper abdomen is somewhat
limited due to motion artifact. The oral contrast seen mostly in
stomach and duodenum, and duodenum is dilated, measuring 4.3 cm.
There is ascites anterior to the liver, overall unchanged since
prior study. In this study, no focal liver lesion is seen.
Gallbladder, spleen, pancreas, adrenal glands and kidneys are
unchanged with renal cyst with perinephritic fat stranding. The
patient is status post aortic aneurysm repair with surgical
clips. There is no evidence of leak or hematoma. There is small
amount of soft tissue surrounding the abdominal aorta at the
level of surgery at just below the renal arteries, however, the
soft tissue has markedly decreased since prior study.

There is markedly dilated loops of small bowel, mostly in mid
lower pelvis, measuring up to 3.2 cm associated with moderate
amount of ascites, new cyst prior study. The distal small bowel
is collapsed, and oral contrast has not reached the small bowel.
There are two possible transitional point, one in left lower
quadrant and the other one in right lower quadrant. The finding
is representing small-bowel obstruction, and its also worrisome
for closed loop obstruction or ischemia given the presence of
ascites. However, SMA and its branches opacified. There is no
significant lymphadenopathy. The visualized portion of the large
bowel is within normal limits. There is no evidence of free air.

In the visualized portion of the lung bases, note is made of
basilar atelectasis with left pleural effusion. Aspiration or
aspiration pneumonia in this area cannot be totally excluded.

There is marked degeneration of lumbar spine with vacuum
phenomena. There is no suspicious lytic or blastic lesion in
skeletal structures.

IMPRESSION:
1. Markedly dilated loops of small bowel in mid lower pelvis
associated with moderate amount of ascites, with collapsed
distal small bowel, representing high grade mechanical
small-bowel obstruction, worrisome for closed loop. SMA and its
branches opacified, however, given the presence of ascites,
presence of ischemia cannot be excluded. Urgent clinical
attention is needed.
2. Dilated and fluid-filled duodenum as described above.
3. Persistent ascites anterior to the liver.
4. Status post AAA repair, without evidence of leak.
5. Renal cyst.

Operative Note 2009-01-22 00:00:00

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  Acute small-bowel obstruction.

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  Acute small-bowel obstruction with
volvulus and an internal hernia.

PROCEDURES:
1.  Lysis of single strand adhesion with derotation of a
    volvulus.
2.  Placement of a nasogastric tube.

ASSISTANT:  Gussie Vasek, RES and Gussie Vasek Gussie Vasek, MD.

ANESTHESIA:  General.

SURGICAL FINDINGS:  This elderly male, status post aortic
aneurysmectomy some months ago, presented with a 2 day
history of vomiting. He denied abdominal pain and had no
acute abdominal findings, however, his white blood cell count
was elevated to 11,000. He was brought to surgery.
Unfortunately, without an NG tube, as we were totally unable
to pass it through his nares, it was elected to go ahead and
protect his airway, intubate him, and then have ENT assist
with placement if we could not do it with him asleep.

He was, therefore, brought to surgery, anesthetized and an OG
was put into place and approximately 2 liters of feculent
material were recovered from the stomach. The airway was
protected throughout the entire time. Having accomplished
this he had usual prep and draping and had a midline
incision. The bowel was very compromised, appeared to be
necrotic through approximately 60% of the bowel. He
additionally had some some telangiectasias noted on the
mesenteric surface and the jejunum and the LAO areas. He had
a single banjo string adhesion across the base of the
mesentery creating an internal hernia through which he had
volvulized a significant component of his bowel. After this
was taken down with electrocautery to control bleeding the
bowel was derotated. The patient did not manifest any unusual
acid reperfusion syndrome at that point, however, the bowel
over the next ensuing 20 minutes did pink up significantly
but still had a significant hemorrhagic aspect to it. There
was also a lot of hemorrhage into the mesentery. Based on
this it was decided that we should do a second look
laparotomy the following day for bowel viability. Since the
bowel looked so much better we did not want to resect a large
component that was effected.

Prior to com123 Any St.n of the procedure the patient had the OG
removed and we still could not place an NG tube with the
patient anesthetized so the ENT service came to the room,
visualized the nares with a scope and placed mucosal
vasoconstrictors and ultimately was able to thread an NG tube
through the nose. During the course of the operation we had
given considerations to doing a gastrostomy, however, prior
to the operation I had been advised by the patient's
cardiologist that he was quite noncompliant and that could be
a problem in the postoperative management. Therefore, in an
effort to avoid someone pulling out a tube we decided not to
place it if we could get the NG tube.

OPERATION:  Under adequate general endotracheal anesthesia
the patient was prepped and draped in the usual fashion. The
midline incision was opened and the above noted findings were
observed. He had significant adhesions of the omentum to the
anterior abdominal wall which were taken down but once we
entered the post omental aspect he was fairly free of
adhesions. The necrotic bowel and feculent smell immediately
met us. We were able to identify the banjo string adhesion
very promptly and lyse that, first with electrocautery to
control any bleeding and then sharply with the Metzenbaum
scissors to actually divide the strand. Once this occurred we
were able to derotate the bowel and as noted above it, over
the ensuing several minutes, pinked up fairly well. The bowel
was run along its entire course on 2 different runs to make
sure there was no perforation and to assess for viability.
The remainder of the abdomen was explored and there was found
to be no issues. The retroperitoneum was intact without
hemorrhage in or around the aortic graft and there appeared
to be [**Last Name **] problem associated with that. After a significant
amount of time in the operating room we re-visualized the
bowel and the bowel actually had gotten much better in
appearance but was still quite dusky looking. Because of my
lack of confidence that this was going to be recovered bowel
we decided to not leave him on the table longer but to just
simply bring him back to surgery the next day for a 2nd look.

Based on this and having an, otherwise, negative exploration
of his abdomen the patient had closure with running #1 double
looped PDS. The skin was closed with skin staples. Sterile
dressing was applied and the patient was reversed from
anesthesia and returned to the ICU for further ongoing
resuscitation. ENT service had been able to successfully
place the NG tube and it was elected not to place a
gastrostomy tube unless it was necessary on re-evaluation the
next day. Sponge, needle and instrument count were correct
x2.

Please note this is a re-dictation of an OP note which was
apparently not able to be found.

Operative Note- 2009-01-22 00:00:00

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:  Small bowel ischemia.

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:  Bowel in recovery.

OPERATION:  Second look laparotomy.

ASSISTANT:  Gussie Vasek, RES
Zuriah George, M.D.

ANESTHESIA:  General

FINDINGS:  This 79-year-old male presenting acutely with a
small bowel obstruction 24 hours ago had exploratory
laparotomy. He had a single band adhesion around the base of
the mesentery with a large component of the small bowel,
approximately 60%, quite compromised with venous congestion
and ischemia. He was derotated and his mesenteric obstruction
was relieved, however, in an effort to preserve bowel he was
closed, resuscitated overnight and brought back to surgery
today for a second look laparotomy. At surgery today he had
recovering bowel identified. There were no areas of frank
necrosis. There were areas of obvious suspected mucosal
sloughing and there was blood in the right colon which would
be consistent with a mucosal slough. The mesenteric hematomas
and congestion had cleared out almost entirely and a
subserosal lesion which was questioned on the first operation
had totally disappeared. Therefore, it represented a
lymphangiectasia which was dilated secondary to mesenteric
compromise.

The patient had an abdominal wash out. All of the entire
abdomen was inspected. The NG tube was confirmed to be a good
location and we reclosed.

PROCEDURE:  Under adequate general anesthesia, the patient
was prepped and draped in the usual fashion. The midline
incision was reopened and the abdomen was explored. There was
a fair amount of blood and even feculent smelling exudate in
the abdomen. This was all washed out with gentle warm lavage.
Having accomplished that, the bowel was run in its entirety
including the colon. The stomach and the duodenum were noted
to be normal in appearance. The NG tube was in good position.

The small bowel was run from the ligament of Treitz to the
ileocecal valve twice to make sure there were no areas of
necrosis or pinpoint perforation, primarily because of the
odor that was present in the abdomen. After we had totally
irrigated the resident fluid out of the abdomen, it was much
better and there was no unusual odor. There was no
demonstrable fecal leaks and there was no demonstrable small-
bowel necrosis. Based on this, the patient had a second
lavage. The omentum was pulled down over the small bowel and
closure was effected using double looped PDS to the fascial
layers. The skin was closed with staples. Sterile dressing
was reapplied. The patient was partially reversed from
anesthesia but kept on the ventilator and returned the ICU
for ongoing resuscitation. During the course of the
operation, because of his blood loss overnight, he was given
1 unit of blood and 350 cc of crystalloid.


Brief Hospital Course:
Gussie Vasek was evaluated in the emergency department at UPMCE on
2009-01-22 00:00:00. Initial WBC count was 9.2.  KUB showed dilated loops
of small bowel with air-fluid level, worrisome for small bowel
obstruction. He was made NPO and IV fluids were started. An NGT
was attempted several times without success.  He was admitted to
the surgery department under the care of Dr. Zuriah George. There was
reattempt at NGT placement without success.  Repeat WBC count
was 12.6.  Urinalysis was negative for infection. CTA of the
abdomen/pelvis was completed which showed markedly dilated loops
of small bowel in mid lower pelvis associated with moderate
amount of ascites, with collapsed distal small bowel,
representing high grade mechanical small-bowel obstruction,
worrisome for closed loop. There was no evidence of AAA leak.
Given these findings he was taken to the operating room where he
underwent lysis of a single strand adhesion with derotation of a
volvulus; and placement of a nasogastric tube. He tolerated the
procedure well and was taken to the ICU. At POD 1 he was taken
back to the opertating room, as planned, in order to reevaluate
the condition of the bowel after resuscitation overnight.
Recovering bowel was identified with no areas of necrosis. The
small bowel was run from the ligament of Treitz to the
ileocecal valve twice to make sure there were no areas of
necrosis or pinpoint perforation and his abdomen copiously
irrigated. He tolerated the procedure well and was returned to
the ICU for continued care. At POD 1 he was extubated.  WBC
count was 6.9; HCT was 28.5.  Urine output was adequate.
Ciprofloxacin/Flagyl/Ampicillin were continued for empiric
coverage. At POD 2009-01-22 00:00:00 he was transferred to the floor.  The NG
tube had been accidentally removed.  He remained NPO.  At POD
2009-01-22 00:00:00 he was afebrile and doing well.  He was +flatus and his diet
was advanced to clears. The urinary catheter was removed.  At
POD 2009-01-22 00:00:00 he was tolerating clear liquids.  His WBC count was 6.1.
 He was OOB and ambulating.

On 2009-01-22 00:00:00 he was discharged home in good condition. He was to
follow up with Dr. Zuriah George in clinic in 2009-01-22 00:00:00 weeks.

Medications on Admission:
Atenolol
ASA
Lovastatin
Relafen
Senna

Discharge Medications:
1. Oxycodone-Acetaminophen 5-325 mg Tablet Sig: 1-2 Tablets PO
Q4-6H (every 4 to 6 hours) as needed for pain.
Disp:*30 Tablet(s)* Refills:*0*
2. Docusate Sodium 100 mg Capsule Sig: One (1) Capsule PO twice
a day as needed for constipation: Please hold for loose stools.
.
Disp:*60 Capsule(s)* Refills:*0*


Discharge Disposition:
Home

Discharge Diagnosis:
Acute small-bowel obstruction with
volvulus and an internal hernia

Discharge Condition:
Good

Discharge Instructions:
Please return or contact for:
* Fever (>101 F) or chills
* Abdominal Pain
* Nausea or vomiting
* Inability to pass gas or stool
* Redness, drainage or bleeding from incision site
* Chest pain
* Shortness of breath
* Any other concerns

You may shower; gently wash incision and pat dry.  No tub baths
or swimming for two weeks.  The staples will be removed at your
next clinic visit.
Please resume your home medications as prescribed. Please do not
drive while taking pain medications.

Followup Instructions:
Please follow up with Dr. Zuriah George in clinic in 2009-01-22 00:00:00 weeks. Please
call for an appointment. The number is test@mail.com.  You may
also call this number for any questions or concerns.



Completed by:2009-01-22 00:00:00