Admission Date: 2007-07-29 00:00:00        Discharge Date: 2007-07-29 00:00:00

Date of Birth: 1952-07-31 00:00:00 00:00:00        Sex:  F

Service:  CME


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient was originally
admitted to the Vascular Surgery Service and was then
transferred three to four days later to the C-MED Service.

This is a 73-year old female with coronary artery disease
(status post coronary artery bypass grafting and multiple
cardiac catheterizations and percutaneous interventions at
outside hospitals), peripheral vascular disease, chronic
renal insufficiency, and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus
who was transferred to UPMCE
from an outside hospital to the Vascular Surgery Service with
a right lower extremity gangrenous ulceration.  The reason
for transfer was for possible vascular intervention.

On arrival to the Vascular Surgery Service the patient's INR
was elevated as she had been on Coumadin for atrial
fibrillation.  She was given two units of fresh frozen plasma
to reverse her coagulopathy and developed jaw pain (her
anginal equivalent) and went into acute cardiogenic pulmonary
edema.  The patient was nearly intubated but improved with a
nitroglycerin drip and Natrecor.

She was then transferred to the C-MED Service for further
diuresis and because her exercise tolerance test sestamibi
obtained following her acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema
showed reversible anterior defects as well as partially
reversible lateral wall defects.  Her creatine kinase and
troponin were flat at the time of the acute cardiogenic
pulmonary edema.  The patient did report some baseline
shortness of breath, but felt that it was worse at the time
of transfer to C-MED Service.  However, at baseline the
patient can only walk 15 feet with a walker and is limited by
anginal pain or shortness of breath.  The patient did report
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, orthopnea, and lower extremity
edema in the past - but not currently.  The patient uses 2
liters of oxygen at home.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Diabetes mellitus.

Coronary artery disease; status post coronary artery bypass
grafting and multiple percutaneous coronary interventions.

Chronic renal insufficiency.

Peripheral vascular disease; status post lower extremity
interventions.

History of deep venous thrombosis with Dvaughn Voas Wert filter
placement.

Congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of 35
percent.

Parkinson disease.

Anemia of chronic disease.

Atrial fibrillation (on amiodarone and Coumadin).

Gout.

Gastroesophageal reflux disease.

Depression.

Polymyalgia rheumatica.

Status post cholecystectomy.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER TO THE C-MED SERVICE:
1. Mucomyst 600 mg twice per day.
2. Allopurinol 100 mg once per day
3. Albuterol as needed.
4. Aspirin 81 mg once per day.
5. Amiodarone 20 mg once per day.
6. Wellbutrin 25 mg once per day
7. Famotidine 20 mg twice per day.
8. Subcutaneous heparin.
9. Heparin drip.
10.      Insulin sliding scale and NPH insulin.
11.      Lactulose.
12.      Vancomycin.
13.      Simvastatin.
14.      Ropinerole 0.25 four times per day.
15.      Prednisone 5 mg once per day.
16.      Nitroglycerin drip.
17.      Nitroglycerin patch.
18.      Toprol 25 mg once per day.
19.      Levaquin 250 once per day.
20.      Synthroid 50 mcg once per day.


SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is widowed and has two
daughters.  She does not smoke or drink.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Vital signs revealed a
temperature of 99.2, heart rate was 69 (range 60 to 69),
blood pressure was 147/35 (range 120 to 141/29 to 63), and 98
percent on 4 liters.  In general,  the patient was a
chronically ill-appearing elderly female sitting upright in
mild respiratory distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and
throat examination the pupils were equal, round, and reactive
to light.  The extraocular movements were intact.  The moist
mucous membranes.  Neck revealed jugular venous pressure
approximately 14 but difficult to assess given the patient's
neck pannus.  Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular
rate and rhythm.  A 2/6 systolic murmur at the left upper
sternal border.  Lungs with bibasilar rales halfway up.  The
abdomen was obese, slightly distended, left-sided scar, and
nontender.  Extremities revealed trace edema of right and
left foot.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Significant for
a hematocrit of 31.8, INR of 1.5, a partial thromboplastin
time of 58.8, and creatinine of 1.4.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY-IMAGING:  The patient's 123 Any St.us
catheterization in 2007-07-29 00:00:00 at the UPMCE
showed saphenous vein graft to left anterior descending
patent, and saphenous vein graft to posterior descending
artery patent, skip graft to the obtuse marginal from the
posterior descending artery which was occluded.  The left
circumflex was totally occluded with collaterals.  The right
coronary artery with 95 percent tubular stenosis.  No
intervention was done at this last 123 Any St.us catheterization
in 2007-07-29 00:00:00.


SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE ISSUES:  The patient was
   transferred to the C-MED Service and initiated on Natrecor
   as well as intravenous Lasix.  The patient's volume status
   throughout her hospital course was difficult to evaluate
   given her lack of neck veins; however, her lungs had shown
   evidence of volume overload as did her chest x-ray.

The patient did respond with much diuresis with the Natrecor.
An ACE inhibitor was initiated as the patient had not been on
it 123 Any St.usly and a low ejection fraction.  The following day
- after two doses of captopril and continuing the Natrecor -
the patient developed acute-on-chronic renal failure with a
creatinine that bumped to 2 and hypotension which responded
to a 250-cc normal saline bolus.  Her captopril was held, and
the patient's blood pressure stabilized.

The following day the patient was transferred to the Coronary
Intensive Care Unit for possible Swan-Ganz catheter
placement.  As the patient's respiratory status had appeared
to become depressed, and secondary to increased creatinine,
the diuresis was not going well.  In the Coronary Care Unit
the Natrecor was restarted.  A nitroglycerin drip was also
initiated.  The patient did not further diurese but did
improve respiratory wise and was called back out to the C-MED
Service floor.

The patient was continued on Natrecor and was also tried on
Lasix as well as Bumex and Zaroxolyn.  The patient did
respond somewhat to the Zaroxolyn and Lasix combination, but
her sodium subsequently dropped from 130 to 125 two days
status post Zaroxolyn, and this was again held.  The patient
did again have a further episode of what appeared to be acute
cardiogenic pulmonary edema on 2007-07-29 00:00:00 which responded to
nitroglycerin, morphine, and hydralazine, as well as the
Natrecor which was already present.  During all of these
episodes the patient was very hypertensive, and it was
thought that impaired filling was causing the acute
decompensation.

The patient's creatinine did improve enough that she was able
to go for a cardiac catheterization.  The cardiac
catheterization also had a right heart catheterization which
was performed to the neck secondary to the Dvaughn Voas
Wert filter.  The pulmonary capillary wedge pressure
was 24, and her right atrial pressure was 12 during that
catheterization.

Following this cardiac catheterization, the patient was back
to the floor and the plan was to further diurese her because
her lungs still sounded wet.  However, the patient was not
responding to the Natrecor and Lasix - and the problems
mentioned above of electrolytes occurring with the Zaroxolyn
also began to complicate matters.  The patient seemed very
hyponatremic on 2007-07-29 00:00:00; probably either from over diuresis
or from worsening heart failure and hypovolemic hyponatremia.
On 2007-07-29 00:00:00, the patient had an episode of extreme hypotension
and severe respiratory distress which was again thought to be
acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema.  Again, the patient had
not been significantly diuresed even since admission.  During
this acute decompensation required intubation and was
transferred to the Coronary Care Unit on 2007-07-29 00:00:00.

1. ISCHEMIA ISSUES:  The patient did have several episodes of
   anginal pain with occasional small troponin leaks of up to
   0.19.  The cardiac catheterization demonstrated distal 20
   percent left main coronary artery, patent high diagonal in
   the left anterior descending, but left anterior descending
   occluded after the diagonal origin, the left circumflex
   with ostial stem with 30 percent in-stent restenosis, him
   obtuse marginal occluded, LPL 50 percent, and right
   coronary artery with ostial 50 percent, mid 80 percent,
   and then total occlusion.  The saphenous vein graft to
   left anterior descending showed mild plaquing, and the mid
   left anterior descending filling retrograde with moderate-
   to-severe diffuse disease.  The saphenous vein graft to
   posterior descending artery was patent, but the segment to
   the obtuse marginal was occluded.

Given the patent stents and vein grafts, no intervention was
done at the time.  The patient was continued on her aspirin,
statin, and beta blocker.

1. RHYTHM ISSUES:  The patient has a history of paroxysmal
   atrial fibrillation.  She remained on a heparin drip but
   was intermittently transitioned to Lovenox in an attempt
   to cut down on her fluid intake.  She was then switched to
   a heparin drip on transfer back to the Coronary Care Unit
   the second time.  The patient was also continued on her
   amiodarone dose.  She was thought to go into atrial
   fibrillation during her final episode of acute cardiogenic
   pulmonary edema, but then converted back to a sinus rhythm
   after transfer to the Coronary Care Unit.

1. PERIPHERAL VASCULAR DISEASE ISSUES:  The patient had
   bilateral foot ulcerations; right greater than left.  They
   was thought to be dry gangrene.  The Vascular Surgery team
   followed and did debride the wound once during this
   hospitalization.  The patient's wound had grown
   methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus at an outside
   hospital.  Thus, the patient was continued on vancomycin
   (renally dosed).  She was initially of Levaquin on
   transfer from the hospital, and this was continued but
   then discontinued when the culture data was followed up
   on.  The overall plan was for the patient to go for an
   angiogram of her bilateral lower extremity so that the
   possibility for intervention could be assessed.  At the
   time of this dictation, the patient had still had not
   become stable enough or have an appropriate creatinine to
   tolerate the angiogram, and this was postponed for this
   reason.

1. CHRONIC RENAL INSUFFICIENCY ISSUES:  The patient's
   creatinine went from approximately 1.3 to 2.5 during her
   hospital course.  It remained mostly in the 1.3 to 1.6
   range.  Medications were renally dosed, and the chronic
   renal insufficiency made diuresis very limited.  On
   transfer to the Coronary Care Unit a workup was begun for
   renal artery stenosis, and this was in progress at the
   time of this dictation.

1. DIABETES ISSUES:  The patient was continued on her NPH
   dose and regular insulin.  She was significantly
   hyperglycemic during her admission.

1. PARKINSON DISEASE ISSUES:  The patient was continued on
   her ropinirole.

1. HEMATOLOGIC ISSUES:  The patient did have an anemia of
   chronic disease, and her hematocrit drifted down during
   her hospital admission.  She did require one unit of blood
   which she tolerated well, with Lasix following the
   transfusion.  The patient's hematocrit then remained
   stable at around 30.

This Discharge Summary covers the admission up until 2007-07-29 00:00:00.  The rest of the dictation will be dictated by the
Coronary Care Unit intern.



                        Arinjay Wert Wert, 14787

Dictated By:Dvaughn Voas
MEDQUIST36
D:  2007-07-29 00:00:00 14:23:17
T:  2007-07-29 00:00:00 16:56:23
Job#:  14787
