Admission Date:  2014-01-01 00:00:00     Discharge Date:  2014-01-01 00:00:00

Date of Birth:                  Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Ms. Clarion Godbold is a 63-year-old
lady who was initially admitted to the Medical service at
UPMCE after being transferred
from an outside hospital.

She has a long history of end-stage renal disease and is
status post cadaveric kidney transplant.  She has recently
been diagnosed with gastric B cell lymphoma and presents here
for further workup.  This was prompted by symptoms of
abdominal pain and diagnosed after EGD-obtained biopsy.  She
has had a history of weight loss, night sweats, pruritus, and
feeling fatigued over the last few months.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Underwent cadaveric renal transplantation in 2014-01-01 00:00:00 for
end-stage renal disease secondary to hypertension.
2.  Osteoporosis.
3.  Total abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral
salpingo-oophorectomy.
4.  Peripheral vascular disease and was scheduled to undergo
peripheral vascular bypass.
5.  Congestive heart failure.
6.  Appendectomy.
7.  Lumbar disc surgery.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  She is an elderly lady in some
distress.  She is afebrile.  Blood pressure is 100/70, heart
rate is 96.  Chest and abdomen are clear to auscultation.
Abdomen is distended and somewhat tender.  Extremities are
within normal limits.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  She was admitted to the hospital for
further management.  During the next 24 hours her abdominal
pain and tenderness worsened.  Nasogastric tube was placed
for decompression.  After CAT scan and surgical evaluation it
was decided that she had an acute abdomen, and we decided to
do a laparotomy.

On the laparotomy she was found to have extensive ganglion of
her small bowel.  Most of her small bowel was resected, and
an SMA thrombectomy was performed by the Vascular Surgery
service at the same time.  A second-look laparotomy was
performed the next day, and more small bowel resected.  Two
days later a third look was performed, and small bowel
reanastomosed.  This left her with about 50 cm of small
intestine.

She was kept in the Intensive Care Unit postoperatively, and
extensive discussions were had with the family, and her poor
prognosis explained to them.  She was kept on total
parenteral nutrition and low-dose immunosuppression.
Hematology/Oncology consultation was obtained, and it was
felt she was not stable enough to tolerate treatment for her
lymphoma.  She briefly developed peritonitis which resolved
with antibiotic therapy.  She was gradually started on orals,
which she tolerated surprisingly well.  She was also able to
take all of her oral medication.  As expected, we were not
able to wean her off the TPN.

She continued to be followed by the Renal and
Hematology/Oncology, and Transplant services during this
admission.

Finally, due to lack of improvement in her condition, and as
per her and the family's wishes, she was transferred to
Hospice care.

DISPOSITION:  Transferred for palliative Hospice care.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Acute mesenteric ischemia.
2.  End-stage renal disease.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Gastric B cell lymphoma.
5.  Status post cadaveric kidney transplant.




                          Liberato Wala, M.D.

Dictated By:Liberato Wala

MEDQUIST36

D:  2014-01-01 00:00:00  16:18
T:  2014-01-01 00:00:00  22:38
JOB#:  7536
