Admission Date:  2007-07-13 00:00:00              Discharge Date:   2007-07-13 00:00:00


Service: MED

Allergies:
Amoxicillin / Aspirin / Clindamycin / Erythromycin Base /
Bactrim

Attending:Chew Eshete
Chief Complaint:
confusion

Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
EGD

Brief Hospital Course:
Respiratory failure:  The patient was
intubated and maintained on pressure support ventilation from
the time of admission due to respiratory failure with blood
gas consistent with hypoxia.  Respiratory failure in this
patient was presumably due to impending hemodynamic collapse.
There was no clear evidence of pneumonia or other primary
pulmonary process on chest x-ray or on examination.  The
patient had small right pleural effusion on admission and
developed left pleural effusion during her hospital stay, but
these effusions were small and unlikely to contribute to
respiratory distress.  The patient was maintained on pressure
support ventilation during her admission and oxygenation was
maintained with acceptable parameters.

Hypotension:  The patient was hypotensive on admission with
blood pressure as low as 60 over palpation in the emergency
department.  This was most likely secondary to GI bleed;
although, the patient's elevated white count on admission and
continuous hemodynamic instability during her hospital stay
despite stable hematocrit indicated that there were likely
other contributing factors.  The patient was initially
suspected of having sepsis, and was begun on empiric therapy
with levofloxacin and Flagyl.  In addition, cosyntropin
stimulation test was performed to evaluate for adrenal
insufficiency.  This test was normal indicating that
hypoadrenalism was likely not contributing to her
hypotension.  The patient was treated with levofloxacin and
Flagyl during her entire hospital admission as empiric
therapy for possible sepsis.  She displayed labile blood
pressure during her entire admission and required occasional
fluid boluses to maintain her mean arterial pressure greater
than 60.  She required intermittent use of pressure
medications during her admission with Dopamine being the
principle Chew Eshete.

Upper GI bleed:  The patient was admitted with hematocrit of
22 and signs of GI bleed including bright red blood per
rectum.  EGD on 2007-07-13 00:00:00 demonstrated a bleeding mass in the
stomach suspicious for malignancy of the linitis plastica
type.  Biopsies were taken and showed adenocarcinoma of the
stomach and also diffuse gastritis.  This gastritis was
likely the cause of the patient's GI bleed.  On admission,
the patient was transfused with 2 units of packed red blood
cells raising her hematocrit to 27.  Hematocrit was monitored
closely during her hospital stay and the patient was
transfused an additional time to raise her hematocrit to
greater than 30.  Her hematocrit remained stable at 30 during
the majority of her hospitalization, indicating that GI bleed
had stabilized after her admission.  The patient was also
treated with Protonix IV b.i.d., sucralfate 1 gram by NG tube
q.i.d., and fluid resuscitation.  No treatment was available
for her diffuse gastric carcinoma and gastritis other  than
the above mentioned medications.

Thrombocytopenia:  The patient was admitted with normal
platelet count, and platelets decreased suddenly to 87,000
early in her hospital admission.  Given the stability of her
white blood cell count and hematocrit, it was unlikely that
this was a dilutional phenomenon.  The possibility of
consumptive coagulopathy was most concerning in this patient
with gastric carcinoma.  Fibrinogen and FDP were checked to
evaluate for DIC, and were found to be within normal limits.
Platelets were followed and were observed to raise to normal
levels.  The patient demonstrated no sequelae of
thrombocytopenia during her admission.

Pain:  The patient was treated with Fentanyl drip in order to
provide adequate analgesia.  She was observed to be
comfortable initially on Fentanyl drip with no signs of pain.
There was no hypertension, tachycardia, or physical sign of
pain.  Eventually, the patient demonstrated physical signs of
discomfort, and required Fentanyl boluses in addition to her
Fentanyl drip.  Fentanyl boluses were administered as
required to maintain strong level of analgesia in the
patient.

Communication:  The intensive care unit team was in frequent
communication with the patient's family, especially the
patient's daughter who was her healthcare proxy.  The
patient's family initially was hopeful of achieving cure in
this patient, such that the patient would be able to
convalesce at home and to recover among her family.  However,
during the hospital course, it became apparent to the
intensive care unit team and to the family that the patient's
disease was not amenable to cure, and that the patient would
likely die of her disease during this admission.  The family
asked appropriate questions about end of life issues and end
of life care and the family meeting was held to discuss the
patient's code status and goal of care.  On 2007-07-13 00:00:00, the
family embraced comfort care as a goal of treatment.  They
directed that the intensive care unit team should withhold
laboratory tests and medications except for medications that
would maintain the patient's comfort.  The patient was
treated with Fentanyl drip and Fentanyl boluses to maintain
analgesia and was observed to be comfortable during her
hospital stay.  After this decision was made, the patient's
blood pressure was observed to trend down slowly and the
patient's respiratory status was maintained with ventilation.
On 2007-07-13 00:00:00, the patient died of cardiovascular collapse,
secondary to her diffuse hemorrhagic gastric carcinoma.


Discharge Disposition:
Expired

Discharge Diagnosis:
deceased

Discharge Condition:
deceased

                             Chew Eshete Chalfant Brenon Chalfant MD 12762

