Admission Date:  2009-04-09 00:00:00              Discharge Date:   2009-04-09 00:00:00

Date of Birth: 1925-04-09 00:00:00 00:00:00             Sex:   M

Service: MEDICINE

Allergies:
Patient recorded as having No Known Allergies to Drugs

Attending:Alwood Kachelmeier
Chief Complaint:
seizure

Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
intubation

History of Present Illness:
Patient is a 42 year-old male with past medical history
significant for alcoholism and depression. Patient presented to
ED earlier this evening complaining of having fell off of a pole
and fell backwards 123 Any St.in 123 Any St.. He had a scalp
laceration which was not initially able to be repaired due to
c-spine precautions. The patient had a head CT which was
negative for any intracranial bleeds. CT neck also negative for
any fractures.

In the ED, initial vs were: T P 88, BP 89/58, RR 14 and O2 sat
100% RA.  While in the ED the patient appeared anxious and
confused initially. ETOH level was 105 and the rest of
toxicology screen was negative.
.
In the ED he then had a witnessed apneic episode and then went
unresponsive for a few seconds per ED resdient but he had a
palpable pulse and blood pressures remained stable. During this
episode he had dropping oxygen saturations (drop not recorded)
and he was clinching his jaw to the point where he chipped his
tooth. Patient then went into rapid bilateral upper extremity
myoclonic jerking followed by partial proning of his arms
bilaterally. He was given Ativan 2mg IV x2, then 5mg IV Ativan,
then 6mg IV Ativan, followed by 7mg IV Ativan in ED.
.
Minutes later he developed SVT to 200 range which appeared to be
atrial fibrillation vs. flutter per ED resident. He was
intubated rapidly and then cardioverted in the ED with good
response as HR returned to NSR with rate in 70-90 range.
.
EKG was significant for borderline long QRS at .122 as well.
Toxicology was called and suggested patient be given bicarbonate
fluid to cover for possible TCA overdose given EKG findings.
While in ED he was given tetanus shot given new scalp
laceration, 3L NS IVFs and then 3Amps bicarbonate were given in
D5. He also got 1g IV Dilantin load and he was placed on
Propofol and a Versed drip started after intubation.
.
On arrival to the MICU patient was intubated and sedated. He was
on AC mode with Tv 600 x RR 16, FiO2 40% and PEEP 5. HR was 90,
BP 132/88 and patient was afebrile. He had dry dressings packed
over right sided head laceration and he was in a c-spine collar.



Past Medical History:
-alcoholism
-depression

Social History:
Unable to obtain as intubated, sedated

Family History:
NC

Physical Exam:
Vitals: AC mode with Tv 600 x RR 16, FiO2 40% and PEEP 5.
saturations 100%. HR 90, BP 132/88, Temp 99.9 F.
General: sedated, intubated, pale skin, very warm
HEENT: Sclera anicteric, MMM, oropharynx with some evidence of
dried blood over right buccal mucosa
Skin: pale skin, scalp with right posterior laceration, crusted
dry blood over hair, about 1" superficial
Neck: supple, JVP not elevated, no LAD, in a c-spine collar
Lungs: Clear to auscultation bilaterally, no wheezes, rales,
ronchi
CV: Regular rate and rhythm, normal S1 + S2, no murmurs, rubs,
gallops
Abdomen:  soft, non-tender, non-distended, bowel sounds present,
unable to assess guarding, no organomegaly noted
GU: foley in place, draining yellow fluid
Ext: warm, well perfused, 2+ pulses over upper/lower ext, no
clubbing, cyanosis or edema
Neuro : deferred as patiet intubated but PERRLA

Pertinent Results:
CT neck: no evidence of any fractures
CT head: 123 Any St. with no acute ICP
.
EKG: sinus tachycardia to 150s,  RBBB, QRS 122; QTc 423

Brief Hospital Course:
42yo male with past medical history of alcoholism and depression
who had recent fall and is now status post seizure with
associated hypoxia and SVT episode in ED.
.
#) Alcohol intoxication with withdrawal syndrome: per patient's
report, last drink was on 123 Any St. 2009-04-09 00:00:00 and he consumed 1.5 pints
of vodka. He had a seizure that was though to be multifactorial
in the ER but denied any prior episodes of visual hallucinations
in the context of Etoh withdrawal. Patient was initially
intubated and managed in the ICU, in the setting of concern
about protecting his airway during the seizure in the ER.  He
was started on CIWA scale in the ICU and was extubated within 24
hours.  After extubation his vital signs remained stable and he
was able to be weaned to q3h CIWA's so he was transferred to the
floor.  On the floor he was able to be weaned to q4h CIWA's, and
watched until he was out of the danger zone for another seizure.
 He had social work consult for help with outpatient alcohol
abuse programs and maintained on a multivitamin, thiamine and
folate.
.
#) Seizure: Patient initially presented to the ER s/p a fall,
but then had a witnessed seizure in the ER thought to be due to
ETOH withdrawal in combination with wellbutrin use which lowered
his seizure threshold. Patient was initially dilantin loaded in
the ER and neurology was consulted.  An EEG was done with no
evidence of seizure activity, so dilantin was discontinued as
per neurology recommendations.
.
#) Supraventricular tachycardia: EKGs and telemetry in ED
consistent with rapid SVT to 280 at peak with etiology possibly
atrial fibrillation/flutter or AVNRT as some of the tracings
appear more regular vs. irregular.  He was cardioverted in the
ER with no further episodes during his hospital stay.  His
troponins remained flat, his CK was elevated but in the setting
of his fall, was thought to be due to possible rhabdomyolysis.
.
#) Elevated CK: patient with CK elevated to around 1000, given
recent fall concerning for possible rhabdomyolysis. He was
continued on IVF hydration to help prevent kidney damage, and
his CK's trended down.
.
#) Depression/anxiety: patient has been followed by a
psychiatrist in Babbitt, [**First Name3 (LF) **] continue to hold home wellbutrin
given concern about seizure threshold.  Neurology team contactAnnabellee Babbitt
patient's psychiatrist to discuss concerns about wellbutrin, and
his wellbutrin was not restarted.  At the time of discharge he
had outpatient follow up with his psychiatrist.


Medications on Admission:
Medications: Confirmed per last fill at pharmacy
CVS 123 Any St., 123 Any St. - (test@mail.com
Last filled 2009-04-09 00:00:00
gabapentin 800mg UPMCE
alprazolam 0.5 UPMCE prn anxiety (#30)
tylenol codeine 2 Q4-6hr prn pain (#50)
buproprion XL 300mg daily
.
prior: lexapro 20mg (last filled 2009-04-09 00:00:00)
celexa 60mg daily (last filled in spring 2009-04-09 00:00:00)

Discharge Disposition:
Home

Discharge Diagnosis:
Primary:
1. Alcohol Withdrawal
2. Fall
3. Seizure
4. Depression/Anxiety


Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.


Discharge Instructions:
Mr. Babbitt, it was a pleasure caring for you during your stay at
UPMCE.  You were admitted after you had a fall Babbitt.  In the ER you were witnessed having a seizure and then
went into a fast heart rhythm that required your heart to be
shocked to stop, during this time you were intbuated and
transferred to our intensive care unit.  The next morning you
were able to be extubated and transferred to the medicine floor,
we monitored you on the medicine floor for signs of alcohol
withdrawal.  After you were out of the danger period for
withdrawal we felt you were medically stable for discharge.
During your stay we also made some changes to your psychiatric
medication regimen, due to concern about some the medications
contributing to your seizure.  The most important thing you
could do to help keep yourself safe, and benefit your health
would be to stop drinking alcohol.  Please consider following up
with one of the outpatient program options given to you by the
social workers from the hospital.  Please make sure you drink
plenty of fluids after you leave the hospital.
.
Changes made to your medication regimen:
1. STOPPED Wellbutrin 300mg daily
2. STOPPED Alprazolam 0.5mg prn anxiety
3. DECREASED Seroquel dose to 50mg at night as needed for
anxiety/insomnia
4. STARTED Folic Acid 1mg daily
5. STARTED Multivitamin 1 tablet daily
6. STARTED Thiamine 100mg daily

Followup Instructions:
Psychiatry:
Dr. Alwood Kachelmeier Babbitt
Babbitt, 2009-04-09 00:00:00 at 1pm
.
Please call 1-test@mail.com to talk with your insurance company
about what plan you have. Then once you have the policy number
please call test@mail.com to book an appointment. You are all
registered through UPMCE and they will book the appointment for
you within 2 weeks. They just want to make sure you have active
insurance so you Babbitt stuck with Alwood Kachelmeier Babbitt for the appointment.



