Admission Date:  2008-03-18 00:00:00       Discharge Date:  2008-03-18 00:00:00

Date of Birth: 1990-03-18 00:00:00 00:00:00       Sex:  F

Service:  ACOVE

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Fever.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 26-year-old
woman with a history of IV drug abuse, who initially
presented to an outside hospital on 2008-03-18 00:00:00 from a
drug and detoxification facility with a chief complaint of
headache, abdominal pain, and fever.  At the outside
hospital, the patient was found to be febrile to 104.6
degrees F, and she subsequently developed hypotension with a
systolic blood pressure in the 80s.

During this initial evaluation, the patient was confused and
only intermittently answering questions.  There was concern
for possible headache, neck stiffness, and photophobia, so
given the concern for meningitis, a spinal tap was done.
This study demonstrated 50 white blood cells (84%
neutrophils), 10 red blood cells, protein of 23, glucose of
86, and 0-5 yeast per high power field.  Given these findings
and concern for meningitis, the patient received Vancomycin,
ceftriaxone, metronidazole, and gentamicin at the outside
hospital.  Given the lack of Intensive Care Unit beds at the
outside hospital, the patient was therefore transferred to
the UPMCE for further
evaluation.

On arrival to the Emergency Department at the UPMCE, the patient was found to have
icteric sclerae, a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur, abdominal
guarding, and right upper quadrant tenderness.  Given the
concern for an abdominal process, the patient was given
levofloxacin and metronidazole; she was also given Ambisome
given the finding of yeast in her CSF at the outside
hospital.

In the Emergency Department, she had an abdominal ultrasound
that was negative for the presence of gallbladder or ductal
dilatation.  Also at this time, the patient began to deny the
report that she was HIV positive; this report has been
obtained only by report and not by documented laboratory
testing from the outside hospital.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Intravenous drug abuse.
2. Cholelithiasis.
3. Cholecystectomy.
4. Spontaneous abortion x2.
5. Therapeutic abortion x1.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  None.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a single mother of three
children ages 9, 8, and 2 years old.  She is unemployed.  She
last used heroin 3-4 days prior to admission; she began using
heroin one year prior to admission.  The patient smokes a
third of a pack of cigarettes a day and denies any history of
alcohol abuse.  She denies any history of providing sexual
favors for drugs or money.  She says her only lifetime
partner is her husband.

INITIAL PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 97.6, heart rate
95, blood pressure 113/71, respiratory rate 20, and oxygen
saturation 100% on room air.  During this initial evaluation,
the patient was not reliable as a historian.  She appeared to
be a well dressed well-nourished female in moderate distress
from "not feeling well", lying in bed, and subsequently
having emesis x1.  HEENT exam:  Extraocular movements are
intact.  There was mild scleral icterus.  Mild conjunctival
edema.  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light.
There were small conjunctival hemorrhages on the right
greater than on the left.  Her face was symmetric.  Her neck
was stiff with pain with flexion half-way down towards the
chest.  The right IJ central venous catheter was in place.  A
small posterior cervical lymph node is palpable.  Her
oropharyngeal examination was remarkable for upper dentures
with eroded mucosa and white plaques consistent with thrush
underneath.  Her tongue was coated with a whitish film, and
she had a few petechiae on her upper palate.  Her heart was
regular, rate, and rhythm, and there was a 2008-03-18 00:00:00 holosystolic
murmur throughout the precordium that radiated to the axilla.
Her lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Her
abdomen was soft, there were normoactive bowel sounds, she
had bilateral upper quadrant guarding, and mild abdominal
distention.  The patient notes that her abdominal discomfort
has been present for the past five months.  She had bilateral
upper extremity tract marks in her right forearm and in her
bilateral antecubital fossa that were clean.  Scattered dark
macules were seen on her palms bilaterally.  She had mild,
but not true CMT on pelvic examination.  She was moving all
extremities freely and equally and had full strength on
neurologic examination.

Her laboratories from the outside hospital included the
following:  Urinalysis was essentially negative.  One out of
two blood culture bottles were growing gram-positive cocci in
clusters initially.  Her CSF demonstrated 0-4 neutrophils and
0-5 yeasts per high power field, 10 red blood cells, 50 white
cells (80% neutrophils, 3% lymphocytes, 13% monocytes), 23
protein, and 86 glucose.  Her complete blood count showed a
white count of 13.3, hematocrit 35.5, and platelets 110,000.
Differential for white count demonstrated 77 neutrophils, 14%
bands, 2% lymphocytes, and 6% monocytes.  Her INR was 1.28
and her PTT was 49.  Serum chemistries demonstrated a sodium
of 133, bicarbonate 21, BUN 34, creatinine 2.0.  Of note, her
creatinine was 0.5 in 2008-03-18 00:00:00.  Her total bilirubin
is 3, direct bilirubin 2.3, ALT 967, AST 396, GGT 125,
alkaline phosphatase 156; her LFTs had been normal at
baseline one month prior.

Her electrocardiogram at the outside hospital demonstrated
sinus tachycardia at 112 beats per minute, normal axis, and
normal intervals.

Her head CT scan from the outside hospital demonstrated
motion artifact and normal volumes to the ventricles.  An
abdominal ultrasound demonstrated increased echotexture to
the bilateral kidneys, and no evidence of hydronephrosis.

At the UPMCE, her laboratories
demonstrated sodium 140, potassium 3.8, chloride 113,
bicarbonate 16, BUN 26, creatinine 1.5, and glucose of 204.
Her calcium was 5.8, magnesium 1.2, and phosphate 3.  Her
white count was 12.2, hematocrit 29.7, and platelets of
60,000.  Differential of her white count demonstrated 68%
neutrophils, 19% bands, 9% lymphocytes, and 4% monocytes.
Her fibrinogen was 477, FDP 10-40, and D dimer was pending.
Her ALT was 529, AST 150, alkaline phosphatase 97, amylase
46, lipase 23, and albumin 2.3.  Her urinalysis had greater
than 50 red blood cells, 2008-03-18 00:00:00 white blood cells, and
leukocyte esterase and nitrate were negative.  Her PTT was
36.7 and her INR of 1.6.

Her abdominal ultrasound demonstrated minimal new
intrahepatic ductal dilatation and small pneumobilia.  A HIV
test was done on admission to the UPMCE and was pending.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
1. Infectious Diseases:  While the patient was reported to be
HIV positive upon her arrival to the Emergency Department at
the UPMCE, her HIV test
subsequently returned negative.  She also informed her
caretakers that she had multiple HIV tests in the past, all
of which had been negative.

The report of "yeast" found in her CSF at the OSH was also
found to be false-positive.  No yeast or fungal organisms
grew out the culture of her CSF, and a CSF Gram stain was
repeated twice at the outside hospital and found to be
negative both times.  The patient received several doses of
Ambisome at the UPMCE, but
once it had been confirmed that the finding of yeast was a
false-positive, her Ambisome was discontinued.

By hospital day three, the gram-positive cocci in clusters
that ultimately grew out from 2008-03-18 00:00:00 blood culture bottles at
the outside hospital had been speciated as
methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA).  Once
this definitive speciation was made, the patient's antibiotic
regimen was tailored to include oxacillin and gentamicin; the
gentamicin was used for only four days in order to aid in the
clearance of her bacteremia.  Given the finding of this
bacteremia and her alarming concert of symptoms on admission,
a transthoracic echocardiogram was performed on hospital day
two.

This study demonstrated a thickened posterior mitral leaflet
with a question of prolapse and at least mild-to-moderate
mitral regurgitation consistent with possible endocarditis.
Biventricular systolic function was preserved.  Pulmonary
artery systolic hypertension was seen.  Given these findings,
a transesophageal echocardiogram was performed on hospital
day three.  This study demonstrated a moderate sized mitral
valve vegetation consistent with a diagnosis of bacterial
endocarditis.

Given this finding, it was felt that all of the patient's
initial signs and symptoms were consistent with bacterial
endocarditis.  Given that the finding of yeast in the CSF was
found to be a false-positive, and given that all subsequent
Gram stain and culture data from the CSF remained negative,
the patient was not felt to have had bacterial meningitis at
any point (of note, two colonies of gram-positive cocci in
clusters were isolated from the patient's CSF culture;
however, these colonies were subsequently speciated as
coag-negative Staph, and were therefore thought to be a
contaminate.

Given the patient's LFTs abnormalities on admission, an
abdominal CT scan was done on hospital day two.  This study
demonstrated a focal area of low attenuation in the contrast
enhanced right kidney, that was ultimately attributed to a
septic embolus to the right kidney.  Also seen were large
bilateral pleural effusions with compressive atelectasis,
ascites, and free abdominal fluid, and a large amount of
pelvic fluid.  These fluid collections were all thought to be
secondary to a systemic inflammatory response syndrome
secondary to the patient's underlying bacterial endocarditis.

In order to rule out the possibility of an epidural abscess,
a spinal MRI was done on hospital day four.  This study
demonstrated no evidence of epidural abscess.  Also of note,
a MRI of the head had been done on hospital day two in order
to further evaluate for the possibility of meningeal
inflammation.  This study did not demonstrate any definite
evidence of a focal lesion in the third ventricle or a focal
mass within the brain.

Following the initiation of the appropriate antibiotic
therapy as noted above, the patient slowly began to improve
clinically.  She initially continued to spike high fevers,
but she gradually defervesced.  Her white count also
initially remained elevated, but this too gradually began to
trend down while on appropriate antibiotics.  She did develop
reactive arthridities in both her left ankle and her left
hand.  The Department of Rheumatology was consulted given
these reactive arthridities and recommended supportive care
to the area.

The patient's LFTs abnormalities present on admission
gradually normalized.  Of note, however, the patient did
develop mild elevations in her alkaline phosphatase, amylase,
and lipase following the initiation of oxacillin therapy.  It
was thought that these elevations may have been secondary to
oxacillin, but the elevations did not persist and had begun
to trend towards normal at the time of discharge.  Given
these normalizations, and given that the patient's hematocrit
had been remaining stable (thus indicating that there was no
significant myelosuppression as a result of oxacillin
therapy), the patient was discharged with a plan for six
weeks of continued oxacillin therapy.

In order to rule out the possibility of mycotic aneurysm in
the brain, a MRI of the head was obtained on hospital day
seven.  This study demonstrated no evidence of acute infarct
from septic emboli, and a subtle increased signal in the
right temporal region that could be within the sulcus.  A
similar, but less apparent abnormality was also seen along
the sulcus of the left occipital region.  These abnormalities
were nonspecific in nature, but were thought to possibly have
been due to a high protein content of the CSF.  Given the
patient's overall clinical stability, however, the decision
was made to clinically follow the patient as an outpatient
following her discharge from the hospital.

Also of note, the patient had a cervical chlamydia probe
return positive during this hospitalization.  She received
azithromycin 1,000 mg once during her hospitalization for
treatment of this chlamydia.

2. Cardiovascular:  Given that the patient had significant
endocarditis, a Cardiology consult was obtained early in the
patient's hospitalization for evaluation of whether or not
the patient was a surgical candidate for her endocarditis.
Given that the patient did not have clinically significant
congestive heart failure or valvular dysfunction with
persistent infection after 7-10 days of appropriate
antibiotics, the patient was deemed not to be a surgical
candidate.  She subsequently developed no significant
congestive heart failure, and she had no further embolic
phenomena following the septic embolus sheath to her right
kidney.

Given her bilateral pleural effusions and mitral
regurgitation, the patient was transiently on furosemide
during this hospitalization, but had no signs or symptoms of
congestive heart failure at the time of her discharge from
the hospital.

3. Rheumatology:  As noted above, the patient initially
developed a left ankle reactive arthritis on hospital day
six.  Given the asymmetric edema in her left ankle, a
Rheumatology consult was obtained.  The Rheumatology service
agreed that the swelling in her left ankle was reactive
arthritis.  The patient subsequently developed left hand
swelling later in her hospitalization, at which point the
Rheumatology service was reconsulted.  They again felt that
the swelling in the patient's left hand was due to a reactive
arthritis that would be best managed with supportive care.
She was started on a 14 day course of naproxen for treatment
of the inflammation and swelling in her hand.

By the time of discharge, the patient's swelling in both her
left hand and her left ankle had improved dramatically, and
were nearly at their baseline.

4. Hematology:  Soonafter admission, the patient manifested a
significant anemia with a hematocrit in the low 20s.  The
etiology of this anemia was ultimately thought to be
multifactorial due to a combination of anemia of chronic
disease, recurrent phlebotomy, menstruation, and oxacillin
induced myelosuppression.  There was no evidence of hemolysis
either by laboratory evaluation or by direct evaluation of
the peripheral smear.  Given that the patient's hematocrit
was low, she was started on iron supplementation during this
hospitalization.

At the time of discharge, however, the patient's hematocrit
had been consistently stable for over one week, and the
decision was made to continue her on oxacillin for the time
being with twice weekly hematocrits following her discharge
from the hospital.

5. Psychiatry:  By hospital day eight, the patient began
threatening to leave the hospital against medical advice due
to inadequate pain control.  Given the concern for the
patient possibly leaving the hospital against medical advice
without plans for continued intravenous antibiotics, a
Psychiatry consult was requested.  The Psychiatry service
felt that the patient had poor coping mechanisms given the
severity of her illness, and recommended initiation of an
atypical antipsychotic.  In addition, they recommended
analgesia as necessary, including with narcotic medications
if necessary, in order to adequately control the patient's
pain.  The patient was subsequently started on an atypical
antipsychotic, and her narcotic medication dosing regimen was
increased, with excellent therapeutic affect.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Good.

DISCHARGE PLACEMENT:  UPMCE Hospital.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis
complicated by right renal septic embolus.
2. Chlamydia.
3. Systemic inflammatory response syndrome.
4. Multifactorial anemia.
5. Reactive arthritis.
6. Intravenous drug abuse.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Oxacillin 2 grams IV q4h through 2008-03-18 00:00:00.
2. Naproxen 500 mg po bid through 2008-03-18 00:00:00.
3. Pantoprazole 40 mg po q day.
4. Ferrous sulfate 325 mg po q day.
5. Quetiapine 25 mg po tid.
6. Hydromorphone 1 mg IV q4h prn pain.

FOLLOWUP:
1. The patient should have her hematocrit, alkaline
phosphatase, amylase, and lipase all checked twice a week
while at UPMCE.  The results of these blood tests should
be faxed to Dr. Hawkinson at fax #test@mail.com in the
Department of Infectious Diseases at UPMCE.
2. The patient should arrange for a follow-up appointment
with Dr. Hawkinson by calling test@mail.com.  She should
arrange for this appointment during the week after she leaves
UPMCE.
3. The patient should call test@mail.com to arrange for a
follow-up appointment with Dr. Azaniah during the week
following her release from UPMCE.
4. Note that the patient should receive the hepatitis A and
hepatitis B virus vaccines as an outpatient.




                            Caylinn Vahalik, M.D.  64

Dictated By:Caylinn Vahalik
MEDQUIST36

D:  2008-03-18 00:00:00  04:37
T:  2008-03-18 00:00:00  07:17
JOB#:  64
