Admission Date:  2012-07-26 00:00:00       Discharge Date:  2012-07-26 00:00:00


Service:  CCU

THIS REPORT WILL BE CONCLUDED IN AN ADDENDUM.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The patient is an 86 year old
gentleman with a history of coronary artery disease status
post three vessel coronary artery bypass graft in 2012-07-26 00:00:00 with
the following anatomy:  Left internal mammary artery to left
anterior descending; saphenous vein graft to patent ductus
arteriosus; saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal 3;
ischemic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 20;
three plus mitral regurgitation; atrial fibrillation status
post pacemaker placement in 2012-07-26 00:00:00, on Coumadin; diabetes
mellitus type 2; hypertension; history of colon cancer status
post sigmoid colectomy in 2012-07-26 00:00:00; history of herpes zoster with
post herpetic neuralgia; chronic renal insufficiency with
baseline creatinine of 1.9 to 2.2; history of anemia.

He was initially admitted to the General Medicine Service
after being found confused by his wife.  Emergency Medical
Services was called to his house and found a glucose of 40.
The patient was given a glass of 123 Any St. juice and was
transferred to the Emergency Room and subsequently was
transferred to he General Medicine Floor.

As per patient's wife, the patient has had diarrheal illness
for three days with a decreased p.o. intake; no fevers or
chills.  No weight loss.

The patient was admitted to Medicine on 2012-07-26 00:00:00.  It was
decided that the patient was dehydrated secondary to
diarrheal illness and hypoglycemia resolved secondary to
taking regular dose of oral hypoglycemics.  The patient was
admitted for overnight gentle intravenous fluid hydration.

In the a.m., the patient was found with worsening mental
status; his blood sugar was 20.  The patient had a persistent
right lower quadrant pain and was subsequently transferred to
the Coronary Care Unit for close monitoring with Swan-Ganz
catheter and hydration, and with the suspicion for ischemic
bowel in the setting of hyperperfusion.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease status post three vessel coronary
artery bypass graft with anatomy mentioned in the History of
Present Illness.
2.  Ischemic cardiomyopathy with ejection fraction of 20%.
3.  Three plus mitral regurgitation.
4.  Baseline weight 150 pounds.
5.  Atrial fibrillation status post permanent pacemaker
placement in 2012-07-26 00:00:00, on Coumadin.
6.  Diabetes mellitus type 2.
7.  Hypertension.
8.  Status post sigmoid colectomy in 2012-07-26 00:00:00 for colon cancer.
9.  History of herpes zoster with post herpetic neuralgia.
10. Chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinine of
1.9 to 2.2.
11. Anemia with hematocrit of 33 to 36.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:
1.  Aspirin.
2.  Coreg 12.5 twice a day.
3.  Lisinopril 30 q. day, on hold.
4.  Lasix 60 mg p.o. twice a day on hold.
5.  Digoxin 0.125 mg q. day.
6.  Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q. day on hold.
7.  Protonix.
8.  Sliding scale insulin.
9.  Multivitamin.
10. Trazodone p.r.n.
11. Tylenol p.r.n.

ALLERGIES:   Penicillin with rash; amiodarone.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:   Very active elderly gentleman.  Exercises
on treadmill every day.

ASSESSMENT:  The patient was admitted to the Intensive Care
Unit for hemodynamic monitoring and hydration with a concern
for high suspicion of ischemic bowel.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   On transfer, the patient's
temperature was 98.5 F.; blood pressure 100/50; pulse 70 and
paced; O2 saturation of 97% on three liters nasal cannula.
General examination:  The patient was uncomfortable in bed,
lying still.  HEENT:  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive
to light and accommodation.  Extraocular muscles are intact.
Oropharynx was moist with no lesions.  Neck:  There were no
carotid bruits.  There was no jugular venous distention.
Pulmonary:  Good inspiratory movement; was clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiovascular system with regular
rate and rhythm, normal S1 and S2.  There were no rubs.
There was a three plus holosystolic ejection murmur at the
right sternal border radiating into apex, consistent with the
patient's mitral regurgitation.  Abdomen:  There were
positive bowel sounds.  The patient's abdomen was extremely
tender to even light palpation; there was positive rebound in
all quadrants, but specifically in the right lower quadrant.
The patient has shown clear peritoneal signs.  There was
extreme tenderness upon right lower extremity elevation above
30 degrees.  The patient also has demonstrated increased
tenderness in the right lower quadrant and right flank.
Extremities with no cyanosis, clubbing or edema.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Upon transfer to the Coronary Care Unit:
12798.  CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM:  It was decided to optimize the
patient's management to place a Swan-Ganz catheter to monitor
the patient's hemodynamics, which was agreeable with the
patient and his family.  Initial Swan-Ganz catheter numbers
showed central venous pressure of 24, PA pressure of 70/90;
and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 24.  Cardiac output
of 5.2, cardiac index of 2.84 and SVR of 508.

Gentle hydration was continued.  Initial low SVR was thought
to be attributed to patient being on a good medical regimen
for his coronary artery disease and cardiomyopathy.  The
patient has done well from the cardiac standpoint, however,
over the course of the night, he had persistent low SVR and
we were concerned about a questionable septic picture,
especially in the context of questionable ischemic bowel.
Therefore, the next morning, Vancomycin intravenously was
added to the patient's regimen.  This was in addition to
Levofloxacin and Flagyl that were started empirically in the
Coronary Care Unit for likely ischemic colitis, in order to
prevent peritonitis due to the transit of the bowel flora
through the bowel wall.

The following morning, the patient has done extremely well.
The patient's abdominal examination was improved and over the
course of the next day, the patient has maintained stable
Swan-Ganz catheter numbers showing good hemodynamics.  The
patient's central venous pressure was between 6 and 10.
Pulmonary artery diastolic pressure was between 18 and 22;
cardiac index between 2 and 2.4.  SVR around 800 and mixed
venous O2 saturations of 50s to 60s.

Subsequently, the patient's Swan-Ganz catheter was taken out
and the patient has continued to be doing well.  The patient
was restarted on his home regimen of Coreg and Lisinopril.
The patient has not been receiving Lasix and instead required
several fluid boluses in order to maintain his urinary
output.  The patient was restarting on digoxin home dose and
he has tolerated the above regimens well.

The patient has been in sinus rhythm with a ventricular paced
rate around 70.  On Telemetry, the patient has shown few runs
of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia, three to four
beats, and has remained asymptomatic.

2.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  The patient was admitted to the
Coronary Care Unit with suspected ischemic colitis versus
diverticulitis with subsequent micro-perforation versus
appendicitis, all of the above could give him localized
peritonitis picture.  Surgical Consultation team was
consulted to participate in his care and per their
recommendations, empiric antibiotic coverage was started with
Levofloxacin and Flagyl.  The next day, Vancomycin was added
to include enterococcus.

The patient's options of care were explained to the patient
on the night of transfer to the Coronary Care Unit including
abdominal scan with or without contrast to exclude
diverticulitis or appendicitis as well as to rule out
ischemic colitis versus taking patient to the Operating Room
without prior imaging if the patient's condition
deteriorates.

After a long discussion with the patient and his family, it
was the patient's wishes to continue antibiotic treatment and
overnight hydration without abdominal imaging or urgent
surgery and to hope for clinical improvement.  This was done
and the patient has improved greatly overnight and over the
next few days the patient's physical examination and today's
was significant only for mild right lower quadrant
tenderness.  The patient has been kept n.p.o. and on the day
three of Coronary Care Unit stay had bowel movements with
Dulcolax suppositories with streaks of blood that were
consistent with fissure versus hemorrhoids, since the
patient's 123 Any St.us guaiac examinations were negative.

The patient's abdominal x-rays were unremarkable.  It was
decided to slowly advance the patient's diet to clear liquids
as tolerated which was in agreement with the Surgical
consultation service.

3.  RENAL:  Acute on chronic renal failure.  The patient
demonstrated a component of prerenal azotemia on top of
chronic renal insufficiency.  With gentle hydration and
occasional fluid boluses, the patient's creatinine returned
to his baseline and was ranging between 1.3 and 1.6.  The
patient maintained good urinary output throughout the
hospitalization.

4.  ENDOCRINE:  Hypoglycemia was improved with hydration with
D5 2012-07-26 00:00:00 normal saline.  It was likely due to the lasting
effect of oral hypoglycemics superimposed on acute on chronic
renal failure.

5.  GENITOURINARY:  The patient has had an episode of gross
hematuria that was attributed secondary to Foley trauma.  The
hematuria cleared subsequently.  The patient was also found
to have a mild urinary tract infection which was already
treated with triple antibiotic coverage for probable ischemia
colitis.

The patient's antibiotic regimen was not changed awaiting
sensitivities.

This dictation is to be followed by an Addendum.



                            Laquoia Arcadi, M.D.  12798

Dictated By:Laquoia Arcadi
MEDQUIST36

D:  2012-07-26 00:00:00  18:42
T:  2012-07-26 00:00:00  18:54
JOB#:  12798
