Admission Date:  2009-01-22 00:00:00     Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:                  Sex:  M

Service:
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 54-year-old gentleman
with past medical history significant for end stage renal
disease, peritoneal dialysis times one year, status post
glomerular nephritis and renal transplant times three and
aortic valve replacement secondary to calcific aorta who
admission, also comes in with a little bit of back pain and
some chills.  She denied any localizing symptoms, no cough,
no chest pain, no shortness of breath, no abdominal pain, no
flank pain.  He did have some mild nausea earlier the day of
admission which seemed to have resolved.  He called his
primary care physician and was told to go to the Emergency
Room.  The day prior to admission the patient had an MRA to
and third finger on his right hand.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Included end stage renal disease
status post peritoneal dialysis times one year, post
glomerular nephritis, renal transplant times three, chronic
anemia, hypertension, aortic valve replacement secondary to
calcific aorta, otitis and GI polyps.

MEDICATIONS:  Prednisone 3.75 mg q d, Atenolol 25/50,
RenaGel, TUMS, aluminum hydroxide, Prilosec, Coumadin 5 mg
and 3 mg, alternating.

ALLERGIES:  Captopril which gave him a rash and talcum
powder.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Significant for father having esophageal
carcinoma.  Patient denied any alcohol or drug use.  No
smoking history.  Occupation:  Patient is a plastic surgeon
and was practicing doing his surgery two weeks prior to
admission.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  In the Emergency Room included a
temperature of 101.7, heart rate 112, blood pressure 153/112.
This is a pleasant white man lying in bed, appeared pretty
sick looking.  HEENT:  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive
to light and accommodation.  Oropharynx was clear.  Anicteric
sclera.  Neck was supple, no lymphadenopathy.  Chest was
clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiovascular was tachy,
regular rate and rhythm, grade 3/6 systolic ejection murmur
heard best at the apex.  GI was soft, nontender, non
distended, normoactive bowel sounds.  GU, no CVA tenderness,
no flank pain.  Musculoskeletal:  Patient had right second
and third finger ischemic at the fingertips, otherwise no
cyanosis, no clubbing, no edema.  Skin with no evidence of
any rashes.  Neuro, patient was alert, oriented.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission included a white count of
12.6, hematocrit 29.4, platelet count 91,000, Chem 7 of
138/4.9, 99/25, BUN and creatinine 48/13.4, glucose 91,
calcium 9.1, phosphorus 4.0, magnesium 1.7.  Differential on
the white count was 71% polys, 10% bands, 14 lymphs, no eos,
no basos.  Peritoneal fluid had two white cells, 19 RBC, 60
PMNs, 30 lymphs, 20 monos.  Gram stain with no PMNs, no
organisms.  Urinalysis cannot be done because patient did not
make any urine.  Chest x-ray was clear on admission.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  On 2009-01-22 00:00:00 the patient had some respiratory
failure and hypotension.  As patient developed fevers,
chills, with no obvious source of infection but developed
some hypoxia, overnight was on nasal cannula, however, in the
morning had increased respiratory rate and decreased O2
saturations with PH of 7.16 and increasing somnolence.  The
patient had CT scan to evaluate his questionable abdominal
source, however, the patient was then admitted to the medical
ICU because he became hypotensive in the 70's but responded
to minimal IV fluids.  The patient was started on some
Vancomycin, Gentamycin and Flagyl for his ongoing fevers.  In
the medical ICU the patient was noted to be hypotensive and
also with an increased metabolic acidosis probably secondary
to sepsis.  The patient was started on some Neo-Synephrine
and Levophed for aggressive blood pressure control as well as
some aggressive fluid management.  The patient also started
on Levofloxacin for coverage and antibiotics.  The patient
was then on Levo, Flagyl, Gent and Vancomycin.  The patient
also was found to be in DIC with an elevated PT, PTT.  If the
platelets were lower, the patient needed to receive some
fresh, frozen plasma anticoagulation factors as well as some
platelets for this support.  The patient had right groin line
placed as well as a left femoral line placed and some
peripheral IVs as well.  Later on that evening at 4:30 p.m.
on 2009-01-22 00:00:00 the patient became bradycardic with heart rate in the
30's with a low blood pressure.  The patient was given
Atropine .5 mg, an amp of Epi with resolving of increased
heart rate, blood pressure and patient was also given Calcium
and some bicarb.  Then patient went into VT with the rate at
about 200, was shocked about 200-300 joules and then was back
in sinus rhythm with rate of 140 with a little bit of
hypotension.  The patient had his electrolytes repleted.  The
patient was found to be over breathing the ventilation with
high respiratory rates despite the sedation with Fentanyl and
Ativan.  Therefore, patient was paralyzed to maximize
ventilation.  The patient was also changed off the different
pressors with Levophed and Vasopressin.  The patient was then
given hemodialysis instead of his peritoneal dialysis for the
next couple of days.  The patient was continued on his
antibiotic regimen of Ceftriaxone, Vancomycin, Levofloxacin,
Flagyl as well as Vancomycin for his unknown source.  The
patient then had a pulmonary bronchoscopy to evaluate to see
if there is any bacterial pneumonia but the patient had no
evidence of anything on bronchoscopy.  Bronchial alveolar
lavage was done which in turn was negative.  The patient also
had a TEE for further evaluation with questionable
endocarditis, however, no vegetations were seen on the
patient's aortic valve.  The patient was cultured numerous
times in terms of his blood cultures as well as sputum
cultures as well as peritoneal dialysis fluid, however, no
source ended up ever growing out anything.

COMPLICATED MEDICAL ICU COURSE:
1.  ID:  Septic shock.  Etiology of the septic shock was not
entirely clear as chest x-ray, CT scans were just compatible
with ARDS and multifocal pneumonia.  However, no bug ever
grew out.  The patient was continued on Vancomycin,
Gentamycin, Levofloxacin, Ceftriaxone.  TEE was performed to
rule out endocarditis, however, was negative.  The patient
was continued on various pressors to support his blood
pressure given the septic picture, such as Levophed and
Vasopressin.  As the patient remained in house, the patient
ended up developing some C. diff colitis, probably secondary
to all the antibiotics he was on.  The patient was given a 10
day course of po Vancomycin per his NG tube as well as being
continued on the other antibiotics.  The patient had his
peritoneal dialysate fluid as well as various sputum cultures
and blood cultures sent for any temperature spike that he had
had.  Nothing had ever grown out of any of these cultures.
The patient was continued on Levofloxacin, Flagyl, Vanco,
Gentamycin for 14 day course total.  The patient had all his
medications renally dosed as patient has end stage renal
disease.  The patient had various tipped catheters of his
central lines changed over wires as well as re-sited and tips
were sent for culture, however, nothing ever grew out as
well.  The patient had CT scan of his abdomen times two which
revealed a left iliopsoas abscess which eventually was
drained, however, no bug or any white cells were found in
that abscess.  As well, patient had evidence on abdominal CT
scan of an enlarged gallbladder which was drained, however,
just revealed normal biliary substances with no bacteria, no
PMNs.  The only thing that ever grew back besides the C. diff
colitis was a sputum culture that was positive for MRSA on
2009-01-22 00:00:00.  The patient had various other negative blood cultures,
sputum cultures as stated before under the ID aspect of this.

2.  Renal:  The patient was end stage renal disease, was
started on hemodialysis as he first was admitted to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit, however, eventually the patient
went over to peritoneal dialysis as he did at home.  The
patient was continued pretty much on his outpatient regimen,
however, while on dialysis the patient developed some glucose
intolerance from the high Dextrose levels found in the
peritoneal dialysis fluid.  The patient was started on an
insulin drip and blood sugars were monitored closely while
patient was on peritoneal dialysis requiring different
insulin doses daily.  Eventually patient was placed on an NPH
dose as well as insulin being added to his peritoneal
dialysis fluid.  Currently patient is pretty much on his own
home dialysate as well as home dialysis schedule.

3.  Respiratory:  Patient was ventilator dependent on
admission to medical ICU on 2009-01-22 00:00:00.  The patient remained on
the ventilator for full support until finally extubated on
2009-01-22 00:00:00.  The patient was very much sedated from all the
medications that we gave him including Fentanyl, Ativan as
well as paralysis.  So it took awhile to wean the patient of
the ventilator due to the excessive sedation.  However,
patient finally weaned on 2009-01-22 00:00:00 while minimal Fentanyl and
Ativan drips which eventually were shut off and was able to
sat well on nasal cannula O2 as well as a face mask.  After
patient was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit and
ventilated, the patient developed an ARDS type of picture and
he was vented in a way to keep his total volumes low for
decreased lung injury.  The patient remained on the
ventilator as I stated before until 2009-01-22 00:00:00 when he was
extubated and patient had some satting.

4.  GI:  As stated before, the patient had C. diff cultures
which eventually were positive.  The patient was started and
completed a 14 day regimen of po Vancomycin and eventually
had a repeat C. diff culture which was negative.  The patient
also developed evidence of some lower GI bleed as well as he
has had melenic stools as well as an upper GI bleed with
positive NG lavage.  The patient had a colonoscopy done while
in house on 2009-01-22 00:00:00 which showed some evidence of some ischemic
colitis as well as a couple of polyps.  The patient had some
Epinephrine injected into the part of the colon which was
actively bleeding at the time.  The patient's hematocrit
remained stable after that and evidence of the GI bleed
seemed to have decreased.  The patient had evidence of some
pancreatitis with rising amylase and lipase levels which
probably was attributed to his septic picture.  The patient
also had a minimal elevation in his LFTs but with
normalization of his total bilirubin and his alkaline
phosphatase, therefore it was thought that this was due to
sepsis rather than a primary source of the gallbladder at the
time until patient finally had the gallbladder drained which
revealed that it was indeed just due to his npo status and
having an enlarged gallbladder rather than having infectious
cholangitis or such.

5.  Heme:  Patient was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care
Unit in sepsis.  The patient was in a DIC type of picture.
The patient required excessive platelets as well as blood
transfusions as well as other coagulation factors for support
of his DIC picture.  The patient also had to be on Heparin
for an AVR replacement which he had had done 123 Any St.usly so
PTT was monitored pretty closely.

6.  Cardiovascular:  The patient had a history of
hypertension when he came in.  He was on Atenolol.  The
patient needed aggressive pressor support as well as fluid
boluses to maintain his blood pressure while he was in the
septic picture.  The patient was on Neo-Synephrine as well as
Levophed as well as some Vasopressin for support of his blood
pressure control.  The patient was weaned off of all pressors
on 2009-01-22 00:00:00 and was hemodynamically stable, not requiring anymore
pressor support.  Blood pressure at times was maintained with
some fluid boluses as patient sometimes got a little bit
hypotensive while he started peritoneal dialysis.  However,
that seemed to have resolved as we changed his peritoneal
dialysate to make his fluid status pretty much even.

7.  Fluids, Electrolytes & Nutrition:  The patient was
started on TPN while in house and after extubation patient
was on tube feeds.  The patient has been tolerating tube
feeds well, started on Neo-Pro for further nutrition while on
tube feeds.  He was started on Criticare and tolerated it
well.

8.  Endocrine:  The patient had evidence of glucose
intolerance secondary to the high Dextrose as well as the
sepsis picture, as well as the chronic Prednisone that
patient was taking at home.  The patient was started, as I
said before, on an insulin drip which was titrated to keep
his blood sugars tightly controlled between 90 and 110,
however, eventually patient was weaned off the insulin drip
and was given NPH insulin as well as insulin and his PD fluid
for better blood glucose control.  Currently patient was
getting the insulin and the PD fluid as well as sliding scale
for control with fingersticks checked every two hours while
undergoing the peritoneal dialysate.  The patient was
continued on stress dose steroids for the chronic Prednisone
he took at home.  He was started on 100 mg qid of Hydrocort
and eventually was weaned down to 15 mg tid of Hydrocort and
eventually 10 mg of Prednisone.

9.  Musculoskeletal/Neuro:  The patient was paralyzed after
the intubation as the patient got hypotensive as well as
patient was given high dose steroids.  The patient, after
being taken off the paralysis and being tailored down on the
steroids, the patient continued to be extremely weak and
fairly less spontaneous movements.  After extubation the
patient slowly gained a little bit of strength back as the
Fentanyl and Ativan were wearing down as well as stronger as
when he was having some physical therapy.  The patient
remained extremely weak, had very little spontaneous
movements and difficulty speaking.  The patient will need
aggressive physical therapy to get back to his baseline as
patient is a plastic surgeon and was fully active prior to
coming into the hospital.

I will update any further events that occur after this
dictation on an addendum and will summarize the ID course at
that seems to have been his major issue during this
admission.




                      DR.Bethani,[**First Name3 (LF) **] 11-647

Dictated By:Dejoun Duffiney

MEDQUIST36

D:  2009-01-22 00:00:00  13:09
T:  2009-01-22 00:00:00  09:37
JOB#:  7452
