Admission Date:  2013-10-09 00:00:00     Discharge Date:  2013-10-09 00:00:00

Date of Birth: 2001-10-05 00:00:00 00:00:00     Sex:  M

Service:  Plastic Surgery

REASON FOR ADMISSION:  The patient was transferred from UPMCE Hospital via med-flight, status post 2013-10-09 00:00:005 feet
out of a tree with extensive facial fractures.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 44-year-old
gentleman who fell 25 feet four hours prior to arrival at
UPMCE after an intermediate
stop at an outside Emergency Department (UPMCE
Hospital) who intubated the patient for airway protection and
life-flighted him to the trauma unit here.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The patient's past medical history on
presentation was negative (per report).  The patient was
intubated.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Review of systems was negative.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  The patient's blood
pressure on arrival was 137/81.  His heart rate was in the
80s.  He was intubated at 99%.  His pupils were equal, round,
and reactive to light and accommodation.  There was blood in
his nares.  A mobile hard palate was ap123 Any St.ted, and he had
three lacerations on the left cheek.  His tympanic membranes
were clear.  He had a chin laceration as well.  He was placed
in a cervical collar.  No obvious deformity was ap123 Any St.ted.
His lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.  His
abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.  A left upper
quadrant abrasion was noted.  His peritoneum was
guaiac-negative.  His prostate was okay.  His extremities
revealed a left shoulder contusion.  Pulses were found in all
distal extremities and in all upper extremities.  He moved
all extremities spontaneously.  His back and spine revealed
there was no deformity.  He was on a back board on
presentation.  His 123 Any St. Coma Scale on presentation was 7.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Further information was obtained from
the family regarding the patient's past medical history of
hypertension, high cholesterol, and gastroesophageal reflux
disease.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  His medications were Cailee Hilderbrant and
Lipitor.

ALLERGIES:  He had an allergy to PROTONIX (from which he got
a rash).

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Occasional alcohol.  A nonsmoker.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  His
laboratories on presentation revealed his white blood cell
count was 13.8, his hematocrit was 37.7, and his platelets
were 245.  His sodium was 144, potassium was 4.2, chloride
was 108, bicarbonate was 24, blood urea nitrogen was 19,
creatinine was 0.8, and blood glucose was 155.  His amylase
was 59.  His prothrombin time was 12.7, partial
thromboplastin time was 18.4, and his INR was 1.1.
Toxicology screen was negative.  Gas was 7.34/45/92/28 with a
base deficit of -1.  The patient was on synchronized
intermittent mandatory ventilation at 700, 50% FIO2, and a
positive end-expiratory pressure of 5.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray was negative.

A pelvic x-ray was negative.

A computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis was negative.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:   The diagnosis at the
time of presentation was loss of consciousness and maxillary
fracture.  The patient was admitted to the Trauma Surgical
Intensive Care Unit.   Cervical spine films, cervical collar,
ACT, tetanus, antibiotics, and a Plastic Surgery was
initiated.

Plastic Surgery saw the patient the same evening.  They
arrived to find the patient sedated.  The patient was
intubated and sedated.  Facial laceration of 5 cm and a chin
laceration were sutured.  Open mandible fracture, midline and
open palate, and ecchymosis of the left eye.  Tympanic
membranes were clear bilaterally.  No septal hematoma was
ap123 Any St.ted.  Facial bones were palpated.  Stepoff was noted
at palate.

At this juncture, two coronal computed tomography scans were
initiated for evaluation of facial fractures.  Oral and
Maxillofacial Surgery was initiated.  An Ophthalmology
consultation was initiated.  The patient was placed on
clindamycin and sutures of laceration for repair.

On postoperative day one, the patient continued to be
hemodynamically stable.  His respiratory system was clear.
His abdomen was soft with positive bowel sounds.  Socially,
his wife was updated on his status, as an Intensive Care Unit
resident, and the patient was stable.

On hospital day two, officially the cervical spine was
cleared.  The patient was evaluated by the Plastics
attending.  Le Fort I and Le Forte II palatal fracture.  The
plan was for open reduction/internal fixation of facial
fractures after cervical spine clearance.

On hospital day two, Ophthalmology came by.  On computed
tomography, there was already apparent, with a lateral
orbital fracture nondisplaced with no evidence of globe
rupture.  The left lateral orbital wall fracture.  Consensual
pupil reflexes were intact.

On hospital day three, the patient continued to be stable.
He did spike a temperature with a temperature maximum of 101
degrees Fahrenheit.  Urine cultures were initiated which
turned out to be negative.

On hospital day four, tube feeds were started.  The patient's
temperature maximum was 101.2 degrees Fahrenheit.  The
patient remained stable and intubated.

On hospital day five, the patient continued to be stable.  No
events of significance.  The patient was made nothing by
mouth at midnight with a plan to take the patient to the
operating room on hospital day six.

The patient was taken to the operating room for open
reduction/internal fixation of multiple facial fractures.
Please see the Operative Report.  The patient tolerated the
procedure well.  The patient was stable postoperatively with
a patent airway and was kept intubated overnight.  His head
was elevated. The patient was placed in a maxillary
mandibular fixation.

On postoperative day one, hospital day seven, the patient
continued to do well.  The patient did spike a temperature to
103.1 degrees Fahrenheit.  In addition to clindamycin, the
patient was placed on levofloxacin.

On hospital day seven, postoperative two, the patient
continued to be intubated secondary to facial edema.  A
Dobbhoff tube was placed, and tube feeds were once again
started.  Maxillary computed tomography scan was taken again,
and with input of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, the
condylar displacement was once again evaluated and judged to
be stable.  Further evaluation will be determined through
Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery.  The patient's hematocrit, on
hospital day seven, required a transfusion of 2 units of
packed red blood cells with further hematocrit levels being
ascertained.  Input was once again given by Oral and
Maxillofacial Surgery.  All fractures were reduced.  The
patient was stable from a Plastic Surgery perspective;
however, he remained intubated due to facial edema.  Tube
feeds were advanced.

On 2013-10-09 00:00:00 there was decreasing facial edema.  The
sutures in the cheek were removed.  The sutures under the
chin were removed subsequently.  The patient was in an
extubation trial.  The patient was appropriate and followed
commands.  The patient was extubated on hospital day ten,
postoperative day four.  The patient continued to do well.

He was transferred to the floor.  The facial swelling was
decreasing.  As the patient was transferred to the floor, he
continued to improve.  However, there was some question as to
when the patient was out of bed and was evaluated by Physical
Therapy; there was some question as to some unsteadiness on
his feet.  His Romberg sign was negative; however, that
coupled with his mechanism injury prompted a head computed
tomography which was negative for mass effect or for any old
or new bleeds.  The patient continued to improve.

On hospital day 12, the patient was given a Panorex.  His
Foley catheter was discontinued.  On hospital day 13, the
patient was evaluated by Nutrition and given instructions on
what kilocalories were needed to meet the patient's needs.
The patient would need 9 cans to 10 cans of Boost per day.

The patient continued to do well and was cleared by Neurology
as to a normal neurologic examination.  The patient was
cleared by Physical Therapy to be able to go home with a cane
for assistance until he regained stability in ambulation.
Occupational Therapy cleared the patient from a neurologic
perspective as well.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  It was deemed that the patient would
be appropriate to go home on 2013-10-09 00:00:00 after his
continued improvement.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS/FOLLOWUP:
1.  The patient was instructed to follow up with Oral and
Maxillofacial Surgery regarding maxillomandibular fixation.
2.  The patient was instructed to follow up with Plastic
Surgery regarding his facial fractures.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  The patient was discharged on
2013-10-09 00:00:00 in stable condition.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  Discharge medications included
resuming his home medications.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Complicated facial fractures (Le Forte I and Le Forte
II).
2.  Mandibular fracture.
3.  Lateral and orbital wall fracture.
4.  Status post open reduction/internal fixation of facial
fractures.
5.  Status post fall from a height of 20 feet.





                          Cailee Hilderbrant, M.D.  6558

Dictated By:Cailee Hilderbrant

MEDQUIST36

D:  2013-10-09 00:00:00  19:52
T:  2013-10-09 00:00:00  08:28
JOB#:  6558
