Admission Date: 2007-11-13 00:00:00        Discharge Date:

Date of Birth: 1954-11-23 00:00:00 00:00:00        Sex:  F

Service:  Birks


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Ms. Birks is a 52-year-old
female who was transferred to the UPMCE in hyperacute fulminant liver failure thought
to be secondary to either Bactrim reaction versus
acetaminophen toxicity. She was admitted to the medical
intensive care unit initially and became progressively
obtunded, with significant encephalopathy requiring
intubation and ventilatory support. Her liver function was
notable for transaminases with an ALT and AST of 9500 and
17,500 respectively and worsening hyperbilirubinemia. She
became progressively more coagulopathic, and it was thought
that she was most likely going to need orthotopic liver
transplantation for survival. Given the critical nature of
her illness, she was transferred to the transplant surgical
service and to the surgical intensive care unit for further
management. This management initially entailed aggressive
control and monitoring of intracranial pressures in
conjunction with the neurosurgical service. This required
placement of an intracranial bolt and aggressive volume
management with the use of hypertonic saline and mannitol.
She continued to receive aggressive cardiopulmonary support
with again, as noted, full ventilatory support and
vasopressor support for hypotension.

COURSE BY SYSTEMS:  Neurologically, as noted above the
patient required placement of an intracranial bolt for ICP
monitoring. Her ICPs had climbed into the high 30s. This was
managed with hyperventilation and usage of mannitol and
hypertonic saline. Over the course of the next 4-5 days as
her liver function improved, her intracranial pressures
decreased. Her sedation and paralytics were weaned. She had
removal of her intracranial bolt on 2007-11-13 00:00:00, and it
was noted on subsequent imaging that she had approximately a
4-cm, right frontal, intracranial hemorrhage. This was
followed serially with CT scans and there was no progression
of the bleeding. The bleeding was thought to be secondary to
her severe coagulopathy and thrombocytopenia in the setting
of her instrumentation. She was started on Keppra for seizure
prophylaxis to finish a 10-day course. On 2007-11-13 00:00:00,
the patient was extubated and her neurologic exam was notable
for response to voice and opening of her eyes. She was moving
her left upper extremity and her right lower extremity with
2/5 strength and had minimal movement in her right upper
extremity and left lower extremity, not following the
123 Any St.ted neurologic pattern if this was a deficit associated
with her intracranial bleeding.

In terms of her respiratory status, it is noted that the
patient required full ventilatory support and was extubated
on 2007-11-13 00:00:00. She initially did well, but, secondary
to what was thought to be pulmonary edema, required
reintubation on 2007-11-13 00:00:00 after failure of noninvasive
positive pressure ventilation. She had some degree of what
appeared to be an ARDS-type reaction or transfusion-
associated lung injury requiring high amounts of PEEP and
oxygenation during the initial days of her intensive care
unit stay. This resolved over the course of the next several
days with diuresis and supportive therapy.

In terms of her cardiovascular status, the patient initially
had blood pressure support with the use of vasopressors in
order to minimize her intravascular volume which was thought
to exacerbate her cerebral edema. The vasopressors were
weaned by ICU day 6, and there was no further requirement for
this. There were no significant dysrhythmias.

The patient, initially thought to most certainly require
liver transplantation, spontaneously improved in terms of her
liver function over the course of her 2 weeks in the
intensive care unit. This was evidenced by progressive
ability to metabolize her lactate, stabilization of her blood
sugars, and autocorrection of her coagulopathy. By the time
of her transfer, while she continued to have a
hyperbilirubinemia, her transaminases had completely
normalized. A Dobbhoff feeding tube was in place for post-
pyloric tube feedings. The patient's transaminases were
elevated; this was thought to be secondary to a possible mild
ischemic pancreatitis which might have developed during her
requirement for vasopressors. She otherwise did not seem to
be symptomatic for this and was tolerating tube feeds.
Therefore, this was not aggressively pursued.

In terms of her overall fluid status, her baseline weight is
37 kg. On the day of transfer, she weighed about 44 kg. This
volume overload was being managed with hemodialysis daily on
an as-needed basis. The patient's renal function, which had
been quite labile throughout her hospitalization, stabilized,
with creatinine in the 2.9-3.4 range. She makes approximately
500-700 mL of urine per day, but is dialysis-dependent. She
currently receives hemodialysis through a left femoral
hemodialysis catheter.

In terms of her ID issues, the patient was initially started
on vancomycin for prophylaxis against intracranial infection
with the bolt in place. She developed a leukocytosis, and the
thought was that she may have been developing pneumonia given
the persistent difficulty oxygenating her. She was started
empirically on Zosyn. Sputum cultures failed to evidence any
pneumonic process, and these antibiotics were discontinued.

In terms of hematologic issues, the patient developed what
appeared to be a DIC versus TTP picture, for which the
hematology service was following. She evidenced a consumptive
coagulopathy with significant destruction of platelets. Her
thrombocytopenia likely contributed to her intracranial
bleeding. The patient required special HLA-typed platelet
transfusions in order to maintain a platelet count above
100,000. She also developed a significant anemia without any
evidence of bleeding. This was thought to be secondary to
hemolysis in the face of an elevated indirect bilirubin and a
depressed haptoglobin. Her thrombocytopenia and anemia
resolved by 2007-11-13 00:00:00, and she no longer
required any transfusion of any blood products.

At the present time, the patient is requiring intensive care
for management of respiratory failure and renal failure. She
is no longer in need of liver transplantation, and therefore,
given her primary medical issues, she will be transferred to
the medical intensive care unit. At the time of transfer, the
patient is receiving the following medications: Protonix 40
mg p.o. once daily; insulin sliding scale; fentanyl as
needed; heparin 5000 units subcu t.i.d.; Keppra 500 mg IV
q.12 hours.



                        Dawnyel Birks, MD 63103

Dictated By:Kashanna Limoncelli
MEDQUIST36
D:  2007-11-13 00:00:00 18:23:57
T:  2007-11-13 00:00:00 19:19:38
Job#:  63103
